ln-334-test-executor/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-334-test-executor
description: Executes Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections). Risk-Based Testing: E2E/Integration/Unit (Priority ≥15). Includes test fixes, infrastructure, docs, cleanup. Todo → In Progress → To Review.
---

# Story Finalizer Test Task Execution Skill

Execute approved Story Finalizer test tasks (Todo → In Progress → To Review) created by ln-350-story-test-planner with comprehensive 11-section structure.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when executing Story Finalizer test task (status = Todo, created by ln-350-story-test-planner) with 11 sections:
- **Section 8:** Fix Existing Tests (update tests affected by logic changes)
- **Section 3:** E2E Tests (2-5 max, Priority ≥15 user flows from manual testing)
- **Section 4:** Integration Tests (3-8 max, Priority ≥15 layer interactions)
- **Section 5:** Unit Tests (5-15 max, Priority ≥15 complex business logic)
- **Section 9:** Infrastructure Changes (package.json, Dockerfile, compose)
- **Section 10:** Documentation Updates (README, tests/README, CHANGELOG)
- **Section 11:** Legacy Code Cleanup (workarounds, backward compat, deprecated patterns)

> [!NOTE]

> For implementation tasks (without test logic), use **ln-331-task-executor** skill instead.

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all test tasks

## How It Works

> [!NOTE]
> **Checkpoint Sync (when invoked by ln-300-story-pipeline hierarchy):**
> - **Start:** Record `| timestamp | ln-334 | Acquired | from ln-330 |` in Ownership Log
> - **During work:** Mark `- [x]` checkboxes as steps complete (Existing tests fixed, New tests implemented, etc.)
> - **Before returning:**
>   - Mark `- [x]` final checkboxes with results (All tests passing, Status → To Review)
>   - Record `| timestamp | ln-334 | Released | to ln-330 |` in Ownership Log

### Phase 1: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers project configuration:
- **Team ID:** Reads `docs/tasks/readme.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` → Linear Configuration
- **Project Docs:** Reads `CLAUDE.md` → Links to `docs/core/`, `docs/guides/`
- **Tracker:** Linear MCP integration

### Phase 2: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Select task:**
   - If task ID provided → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List "Todo" tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Read task and parent story FULLY:**
   - Read task description COMPLETELY (no truncation) - verify 11 sections present
   - If task has parentId → Read parent User Story COMPLETELY (no truncation)
   - Understand acceptance criteria, context, test strategy from BOTH
3. **Create TodoWrite** todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (Todo → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task
   - **Step 1:** Fix Existing Tests (Section 8)
   - **Step 2:** Implement New Tests E2E→Integration→Unit (Sections 3-5, Priority ≥15)
   - **Step 3:** Update Project Files (Sections 9-11: Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup)
   - **Step 4:** Final Verification (all tests pass, 10-28 total)
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting, all existing tests pass, all new tests pass
   - Update task description with completed checkboxes (replace `- [ ]` with `- [x]`)
   - Add test summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task
4. **Study Project Test Infrastructure:**
   Before implementation, understand testing setup:
   - Read tests/README.md (commands, setup, test requirements)
   - Review test configs (jest.config.js/pytest.ini - framework version)
   - Study existing tests (browse tests/ structure and patterns)
   - Verify test limits (2-5 E2E, 3-8 Integration, 5-15 Unit, 10-28 total)
   - Add to TodoWrite: verify test commands work
5. **Execute first todo:** Update status to "In Progress" in Linear
6. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md to reflect status change

### Phase 3: Story Finalizer Task Implementation (11 Sections)

**4-Step Workflow Following Task Structure:**

**Step 1: Fix Existing Tests (Section 8)**
- Load Section 8 "Existing Tests to Fix/Update" from task description
- For each affected test file:
  - Understand why it fails (changed behavior, new API contract, updated mocks)
  - Apply fix according to task description (update setup, assertions, mocked dependencies)
  - Verify test passes
- Run all existing tests suite
- > [!WARNING]
- > All existing tests MUST pass before proceeding to Step 2

**Step 2: Implement New Tests (Sections 3-5, E2E-first Risk-Based Testing, Priority ≥15)**

> [!NOTE]

> Risk assessment completed by ln-350-story-test-planner. Task contains exact scenarios with Priority scores.

2.1. **E2E Tests (2-5 max) - FIRST:**
   - **Task contains exact scenarios** from manual testing (curl/puppeteer results)
   - Follow task's Section 3 "E2E Tests" step-by-step
   - Implement scenarios that were manually verified (Happy path + critical edge cases + error scenarios)

2.2. **Integration Tests (3-8 max) - SECOND:**
   - **Task identifies layer interactions** from E2E flows with Priority ≥15
   - Follow task's Section 4 "Integration Tests"
   - Test layer interactions, database queries, transactions NOT fully covered by E2E

2.3. **Unit Tests (5-15 max) - THIRD:**
   - **Task identifies complex business logic** with Priority ≥15
   - Follow task's Section 5 "Unit Tests"
   - Test financial calculations, security logic, complex algorithms NOT covered by E2E
   - **SKIP:** Simple CRUD, framework code, trivial conditionals, getters/setters

**Reference:** See `ln-350-story-test-planner/references/risk_based_testing_guide.md` for complete Risk-Based Testing methodology, test limits (2-5/3-8/5-15, total 10-28 max), and test selection criteria.

**Step 3: Update Project Files (Sections 9-11: Infrastructure + Documentation + Legacy Cleanup)**

**3.1. Update Infrastructure (Section 9)**
- Load Section 9 "Infrastructure Changes" from task description
- Update package.json (test dependencies with exact versions)
- Update Dockerfile (test environment setup)
- Update docker-compose.yml (test services, environment variables)
- Update test configs (jest.config.js, vitest.config.ts, pytest.ini, etc.)
- Verify: docker-compose up, npm install succeed

**3.2. Update Documentation (Section 10)**
- Load Section 10 "Documentation Updates" from task description
- Update tests/README.md:
  - New test commands (npm test, npm run test:e2e, etc.)
  - Test structure changes (if new patterns used)
  - Test data setup/teardown instructions
  - Troubleshooting section
- Update README.md (main):
  - Feature documentation (what was tested and how)
  - Setup instructions (if new dependencies added)
  - Testing section (how to run tests for this feature)
- Update CHANGELOG.md:
  - Document test coverage (X E2E, Y Integration, Z Unit)
  - Note Priority ≥15 scenarios covered
- Update other docs (API docs, architecture, deployment guide as needed)

**3.3. Cleanup Legacy Code (Section 11)**
- Load Section 11 "Legacy Code Cleanup" from task description
- Remove workarounds/hacks (with justification from task)
- Remove backward compatibility code (if safe per task analysis)
- Remove deprecated patterns (replace with new patterns from this Story)
- Remove dead code (unused functions, commented-out blocks)
- **Verify:** All tests still pass after cleanup

**Step 4: Final Verification**
- All existing tests pass (from Step 1)
- All new tests pass (from Step 2)
- Infrastructure works (from Step 3.1)
- Documentation complete (from Step 3.2)
- Legacy code removed safely (from Step 3.3)
- **Cleanup:** Delete `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` (manual testing script no longer needed)

### Phase 4: Quality & Handoff

**Quality gates (all must pass):**
1. **Type checking:** No type errors
2. **Linting:** Code formatting correct
3. **All existing tests pass:** Tests from Step 1 (Fix Existing Tests) all green
4. **All new tests pass:** E2E (2-5) → Integration (3-8) → Unit (5-15) (no failures)
5. **Test limits:** Total tests 10-28 (within enforced range)
6. **Priority ≥15 scenarios:** All critical scenarios from manual testing tested
7. **Infrastructure works:** docker-compose up, npm install succeed
8. **Documentation complete:** tests/README.md, README.md, CHANGELOG.md updated
9. **Legacy code removed safely:** All tests still pass after cleanup

**Linear update:**
1. Update task description: Replace all `- [ ]` with `- [x]` to mark checkboxes completed (via `update_issue`)
2. Add test summary comment:
   - Existing tests fixed: X tests
   - New tests implemented: E2E Y, Integration Z, Unit W (total N)
   - Infrastructure updated: package.json, Dockerfile, compose
   - Documentation updated: README, tests/README, CHANGELOG
   - Legacy cleanup: M items removed
   - Priority ≥15 scenarios: All covered
3. Move task: "In Progress" → "To Review"
4. Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review)

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after code review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Story Finalizer Task Implementation Complete (11 Sections, 6 Steps):**
- [ ] **Step 1:** Existing tests fixed (Section 8: all affected tests updated and passing)
- [ ] **Step 2:** New tests implemented (Sections 3-5):
  - E2E tests (2-5 tests, Priority ≥15 scenarios from manual testing)
  - Integration tests (3-8 tests, Priority ≥15 layer interactions NOT covered by E2E)
  - Unit tests (5-15 tests, Priority ≥15 complex business logic: financial, security, algorithms)
  - Total test count within 10-28 limit (enforced)
  - No test duplication: Each test adds unique business value
- [ ] **Step 3:** Infrastructure updated (Section 9: package.json, Dockerfile, compose, test configs)
- [ ] **Step 4:** Documentation updated (Section 10: tests/README.md, README.md, CHANGELOG.md)
- [ ] **Step 5:** Legacy code removed (Section 11: workarounds, backward compat, deprecated patterns)
- [ ] **Step 6:** Final verification (all tests pass, infra works, docs complete)

**✅ Risk-Based Testing Compliance:**
- [ ] All Priority ≥15 scenarios from manual testing tested
- [ ] Priority <15 scenarios skipped (manual testing sufficient)
- [ ] "Test OUR code, not frameworks" - Only business logic tested (no Express, React, Prisma framework tests)
- [ ] Trivial code skipped (simple CRUD, getters/setters, framework code)

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code formatting compliant
- [ ] **All existing tests pass:** Tests from Section 8 (Fix Existing Tests) all green
- [ ] **All new tests pass:** E2E (2-5) + Integration (3-8) + Unit (5-15) = 10-28 total (no failures)
- [ ] Test execution speed: Unit <5s, Integration <30s, E2E <2min total
- [ ] No flaky tests (tests pass consistently)
- [ ] Infrastructure works: docker-compose up, npm install succeed
- [ ] Legacy code removed safely: All tests still pass after cleanup

**✅ Documentation Updated (Section 10):**
- [ ] Inline comments in test files (WHY this test needed, business value tested)
- [ ] tests/README.md updated:
  - New test commands added (npm test, npm run test:e2e, etc.)
  - Test structure changes documented
  - Test data setup/teardown instructions
  - Troubleshooting section
- [ ] README.md (main) updated:
  - Feature documentation (what was tested and how)
  - Setup instructions (if new dependencies added)
  - Testing section (how to run tests for this feature)
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated:
  - Test coverage documented (X E2E, Y Integration, Z Unit)
  - Priority ≥15 scenarios noted

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Task description updated: All checkboxes marked [x] (replaced `- [ ]` with `- [x]` via update_issue)
- [ ] Test summary comment added to Linear:
  - "**Existing Tests Fixed:** X tests (Section 8)"
  - "**New Tests:** E2E Y tests (scenarios: list), Integration Z tests (interactions: list), Unit W tests (logic: list)"
  - "**Total:** N tests (within 10-28 limit)"
  - "**Priority ≥15 scenarios:** All covered"
  - "**Infrastructure:** package.json, Dockerfile, compose updated (Section 9)"
  - "**Documentation:** README, tests/README, CHANGELOG updated (Section 10)"
  - "**Legacy Cleanup:** M items removed (Section 11)"
- [ ] Task status changed: "In Progress" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated (In Progress → To Review)

**✅ Temporary Files Cleaned:**
- [ ] Manual testing script `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` deleted (tests now in codebase)

**✅ Handoff Ready:**
- [ ] Chat output prefix used: ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] for all messages
- [ ] Final message: "Story Finalizer task complete. 6 steps executed (Fix Tests + New Tests + Infrastructure + Documentation + Legacy Cleanup + Verification). All quality gates passed. Ready for review."

**⛔ FORBIDDEN (workflow violation):**
- [ ] Task status is "To Review" (NOT "Done" - only ln-332-task-reviewer can set Done)
- [ ] Did NOT attempt to review own tests (not executor's responsibility)
- [ ] Returned control to orchestrator/user after To Review

**Output:** Story Finalizer test task ready for ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Direct invocation:**
```
Execute test task API-99
```

**For Story:**
```
Implement tests for Story US001
```

## Best Practices

1. **Fix Existing Tests First (Step 1):** All existing tests must pass before implementing new tests
2. **E2E First (Step 2):** Implement E2E tests first (from manual testing Priority ≥15), then Integration, then Unit
3. **Follow task description:** All 11 sections contain specific instructions from ln-350-story-test-planner analysis
4. **Test limits enforced:** 2-5 E2E, 3-8 Integration, 5-15 Unit, total 10-28 max
5. **Priority-based:** Only Priority ≥15 scenarios (money, security, core flows)
6. **Test OUR code:** Don't test frameworks or external libraries
7. **Skip trivial code:** No tests for simple CRUD, framework code, getters/setters (E2E covers them)
8. **Fast feedback:** Unit tests must be fast (<5s), Integration moderate (<30s), E2E acceptable (<2min)
9. **Infrastructure updates (Step 3.1):** Use exact versions from task, verify docker-compose up works
10. **Documentation completeness (Step 3.2):** Update ALL docs (tests/README, README, CHANGELOG)
11. **Safe cleanup (Step 3.3):** Verify all tests still pass after removing legacy code
12. **No flaky tests:** All tests deterministic and stable
13. **Chat output prefix:** Always use ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] prefix for user visibility when orchestrated
14. **Research before fixing** - On unexpected test failures, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to find framework-specific solutions before custom workarounds

---

**Version:** 3.0.0 (Simplified workflow from 6 steps to 4 by grouping Step 3 (Infrastructure) + Step 4 (Documentation) + Step 5 (Legacy Cleanup) into Step 3: Update Project Files with 3 sub-steps, following Progressive Disclosure Pattern)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14

Commit message:

Remove checkpoint sync notes and enforce status validation
Eliminates detailed checkpoint sync instructions from all SKILL.md files and simplifies checkpoint tracking in the pipeline. Adds strict status transition validation to ln-330-story-executor and related executors, ensuring only ln-332-task-reviewer can set tasks to Done. Updates checkpoint_format.md to a minimal progress checklist. Deletes the verification_log_template.md reference file.

ln-334-test-executor/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-334-test-executor
description: Executes Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections). Risk-Based Testing: E2E/Integration/Unit (Priority ≥15). Includes test fixes, infrastructure, docs, cleanup. Todo → In Progress → To Review.
---

# Story Finalizer Test Task Execution Skill

Execute approved Story Finalizer test tasks (Todo → In Progress → To Review) created by ln-350-story-test-planner with comprehensive 11-section structure.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when executing Story Finalizer test task (status = Todo, created by ln-350-story-test-planner) with 11 sections:
- **Section 8:** Fix Existing Tests (update tests affected by logic changes)
- **Section 3:** E2E Tests (2-5 max, Priority ≥15 user flows from manual testing)
- **Section 4:** Integration Tests (3-8 max, Priority ≥15 layer interactions)
- **Section 5:** Unit Tests (5-15 max, Priority ≥15 complex business logic)
- **Section 9:** Infrastructure Changes (package.json, Dockerfile, compose)
- **Section 10:** Documentation Updates (README, tests/README, CHANGELOG)
- **Section 11:** Legacy Code Cleanup (workarounds, backward compat, deprecated patterns)

> [!NOTE]

> For implementation tasks (without test logic), use **ln-331-task-executor** skill instead.

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all test tasks

## How It Works

### Phase 1: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers project configuration:
- **Team ID:** Reads `docs/tasks/readme.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` → Linear Configuration
- **Project Docs:** Reads `CLAUDE.md` → Links to `docs/core/`, `docs/guides/`
- **Tracker:** Linear MCP integration

### Phase 2: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Select task:**
   - If task ID provided → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List "Todo" tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Read task and parent story FULLY:**
   - Read task description COMPLETELY (no truncation) - verify 11 sections present
   - If task has parentId → Read parent User Story COMPLETELY (no truncation)
   - Understand acceptance criteria, context, test strategy from BOTH
3. **Create TodoWrite** todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (Todo → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task
   - **Step 1:** Fix Existing Tests (Section 8)
   - **Step 2:** Implement New Tests E2E→Integration→Unit (Sections 3-5, Priority ≥15)
   - **Step 3:** Update Project Files (Sections 9-11: Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup)
   - **Step 4:** Final Verification (all tests pass, 10-28 total)
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting, all existing tests pass, all new tests pass
   - Update task description with completed checkboxes (replace `- [ ]` with `- [x]`)
   - Add test summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task
4. **Study Project Test Infrastructure:**
   Before implementation, understand testing setup:
   - Read tests/README.md (commands, setup, test requirements)
   - Review test configs (jest.config.js/pytest.ini - framework version)
   - Study existing tests (browse tests/ structure and patterns)
   - Verify test limits (2-5 E2E, 3-8 Integration, 5-15 Unit, 10-28 total)
   - Add to TodoWrite: verify test commands work
5. **Execute first todo:** Update status to "In Progress" in Linear
6. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md to reflect status change

### Phase 3: Story Finalizer Task Implementation (11 Sections)

**4-Step Workflow Following Task Structure:**

**Step 1: Fix Existing Tests (Section 8)**
- Load Section 8 "Existing Tests to Fix/Update" from task description
- For each affected test file:
  - Understand why it fails (changed behavior, new API contract, updated mocks)
  - Apply fix according to task description (update setup, assertions, mocked dependencies)
  - Verify test passes
- Run all existing tests suite
- > [!WARNING]
- > All existing tests MUST pass before proceeding to Step 2

**Step 2: Implement New Tests (Sections 3-5, E2E-first Risk-Based Testing, Priority ≥15)**

> [!NOTE]

> Risk assessment completed by ln-350-story-test-planner. Task contains exact scenarios with Priority scores.

2.1. **E2E Tests (2-5 max) - FIRST:**
   - **Task contains exact scenarios** from manual testing (curl/puppeteer results)
   - Follow task's Section 3 "E2E Tests" step-by-step
   - Implement scenarios that were manually verified (Happy path + critical edge cases + error scenarios)

2.2. **Integration Tests (3-8 max) - SECOND:**
   - **Task identifies layer interactions** from E2E flows with Priority ≥15
   - Follow task's Section 4 "Integration Tests"
   - Test layer interactions, database queries, transactions NOT fully covered by E2E

2.3. **Unit Tests (5-15 max) - THIRD:**
   - **Task identifies complex business logic** with Priority ≥15
   - Follow task's Section 5 "Unit Tests"
   - Test financial calculations, security logic, complex algorithms NOT covered by E2E
   - **SKIP:** Simple CRUD, framework code, trivial conditionals, getters/setters

**Reference:** See `ln-350-story-test-planner/references/risk_based_testing_guide.md` for complete Risk-Based Testing methodology, test limits (2-5/3-8/5-15, total 10-28 max), and test selection criteria.

**Step 3: Update Project Files (Sections 9-11: Infrastructure + Documentation + Legacy Cleanup)**

**3.1. Update Infrastructure (Section 9)**
- Load Section 9 "Infrastructure Changes" from task description
- Update package.json (test dependencies with exact versions)
- Update Dockerfile (test environment setup)
- Update docker-compose.yml (test services, environment variables)
- Update test configs (jest.config.js, vitest.config.ts, pytest.ini, etc.)
- Verify: docker-compose up, npm install succeed

**3.2. Update Documentation (Section 10)**
- Load Section 10 "Documentation Updates" from task description
- Update tests/README.md:
  - New test commands (npm test, npm run test:e2e, etc.)
  - Test structure changes (if new patterns used)
  - Test data setup/teardown instructions
  - Troubleshooting section
- Update README.md (main):
  - Feature documentation (what was tested and how)
  - Setup instructions (if new dependencies added)
  - Testing section (how to run tests for this feature)
- Update CHANGELOG.md:
  - Document test coverage (X E2E, Y Integration, Z Unit)
  - Note Priority ≥15 scenarios covered
- Update other docs (API docs, architecture, deployment guide as needed)

**3.3. Cleanup Legacy Code (Section 11)**
- Load Section 11 "Legacy Code Cleanup" from task description
- Remove workarounds/hacks (with justification from task)
- Remove backward compatibility code (if safe per task analysis)
- Remove deprecated patterns (replace with new patterns from this Story)
- Remove dead code (unused functions, commented-out blocks)
- **Verify:** All tests still pass after cleanup

**Step 4: Final Verification**
- All existing tests pass (from Step 1)
- All new tests pass (from Step 2)
- Infrastructure works (from Step 3.1)
- Documentation complete (from Step 3.2)
- Legacy code removed safely (from Step 3.3)
- **Cleanup:** Delete `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` (manual testing script no longer needed)

### Phase 4: Quality & Handoff

**Quality gates (all must pass):**
1. **Type checking:** No type errors
2. **Linting:** Code formatting correct
3. **All existing tests pass:** Tests from Step 1 (Fix Existing Tests) all green
4. **All new tests pass:** E2E (2-5) → Integration (3-8) → Unit (5-15) (no failures)
5. **Test limits:** Total tests 10-28 (within enforced range)
6. **Priority ≥15 scenarios:** All critical scenarios from manual testing tested
7. **Infrastructure works:** docker-compose up, npm install succeed
8. **Documentation complete:** tests/README.md, README.md, CHANGELOG.md updated
9. **Legacy code removed safely:** All tests still pass after cleanup

**Linear update:**
1. Update task description: Replace all `- [ ]` with `- [x]` to mark checkboxes completed (via `update_issue`)
2. Add test summary comment:
   - Existing tests fixed: X tests
   - New tests implemented: E2E Y, Integration Z, Unit W (total N)
   - Infrastructure updated: package.json, Dockerfile, compose
   - Documentation updated: README, tests/README, CHANGELOG
   - Legacy cleanup: M items removed
   - Priority ≥15 scenarios: All covered
3. Move task: "In Progress" → "To Review"
4. Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review)

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after code review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Story Finalizer Task Implementation Complete (11 Sections, 6 Steps):**
- [ ] **Step 1:** Existing tests fixed (Section 8: all affected tests updated and passing)
- [ ] **Step 2:** New tests implemented (Sections 3-5):
  - E2E tests (2-5 tests, Priority ≥15 scenarios from manual testing)
  - Integration tests (3-8 tests, Priority ≥15 layer interactions NOT covered by E2E)
  - Unit tests (5-15 tests, Priority ≥15 complex business logic: financial, security, algorithms)
  - Total test count within 10-28 limit (enforced)
  - No test duplication: Each test adds unique business value
- [ ] **Step 3:** Infrastructure updated (Section 9: package.json, Dockerfile, compose, test configs)
- [ ] **Step 4:** Documentation updated (Section 10: tests/README.md, README.md, CHANGELOG.md)
- [ ] **Step 5:** Legacy code removed (Section 11: workarounds, backward compat, deprecated patterns)
- [ ] **Step 6:** Final verification (all tests pass, infra works, docs complete)

**✅ Risk-Based Testing Compliance:**
- [ ] All Priority ≥15 scenarios from manual testing tested
- [ ] Priority <15 scenarios skipped (manual testing sufficient)
- [ ] "Test OUR code, not frameworks" - Only business logic tested (no Express, React, Prisma framework tests)
- [ ] Trivial code skipped (simple CRUD, getters/setters, framework code)

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code formatting compliant
- [ ] **All existing tests pass:** Tests from Section 8 (Fix Existing Tests) all green
- [ ] **All new tests pass:** E2E (2-5) + Integration (3-8) + Unit (5-15) = 10-28 total (no failures)
- [ ] Test execution speed: Unit <5s, Integration <30s, E2E <2min total
- [ ] No flaky tests (tests pass consistently)
- [ ] Infrastructure works: docker-compose up, npm install succeed
- [ ] Legacy code removed safely: All tests still pass after cleanup

**✅ Documentation Updated (Section 10):**
- [ ] Inline comments in test files (WHY this test needed, business value tested)
- [ ] tests/README.md updated:
  - New test commands added (npm test, npm run test:e2e, etc.)
  - Test structure changes documented
  - Test data setup/teardown instructions
  - Troubleshooting section
- [ ] README.md (main) updated:
  - Feature documentation (what was tested and how)
  - Setup instructions (if new dependencies added)
  - Testing section (how to run tests for this feature)
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated:
  - Test coverage documented (X E2E, Y Integration, Z Unit)
  - Priority ≥15 scenarios noted

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Task description updated: All checkboxes marked [x] (replaced `- [ ]` with `- [x]` via update_issue)
- [ ] Test summary comment added to Linear:
  - "**Existing Tests Fixed:** X tests (Section 8)"
  - "**New Tests:** E2E Y tests (scenarios: list), Integration Z tests (interactions: list), Unit W tests (logic: list)"
  - "**Total:** N tests (within 10-28 limit)"
  - "**Priority ≥15 scenarios:** All covered"
  - "**Infrastructure:** package.json, Dockerfile, compose updated (Section 9)"
  - "**Documentation:** README, tests/README, CHANGELOG updated (Section 10)"
  - "**Legacy Cleanup:** M items removed (Section 11)"
- [ ] Task status changed: "In Progress" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated (In Progress → To Review)

**✅ Temporary Files Cleaned:**
- [ ] Manual testing script `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` deleted (tests now in codebase)

**✅ Handoff Ready:**
- [ ] Chat output prefix used: ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] for all messages
- [ ] Final message: "Story Finalizer task complete. 6 steps executed (Fix Tests + New Tests + Infrastructure + Documentation + Legacy Cleanup + Verification). All quality gates passed. Ready for review."

**⛔ FORBIDDEN (workflow violation):**
- [ ] ⛔ **CRITICAL:** Task status is "To Review" (NEVER "Done" - only ln-332-task-reviewer can approve to Done)
- [ ] ⛔ **ln-330-story-executor validates status** - If task is Done, orchestrator reports worker violation error
- [ ] Did NOT attempt to review own tests (not executor's responsibility)
- [ ] Returned control to orchestrator/user after To Review

**Output:** Story Finalizer test task ready for ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Direct invocation:**
```
Execute test task API-99
```

**For Story:**
```
Implement tests for Story US001
```

## Best Practices

1. **Fix Existing Tests First (Step 1):** All existing tests must pass before implementing new tests
2. **E2E First (Step 2):** Implement E2E tests first (from manual testing Priority ≥15), then Integration, then Unit
3. **Follow task description:** All 11 sections contain specific instructions from ln-350-story-test-planner analysis
4. **Test limits enforced:** 2-5 E2E, 3-8 Integration, 5-15 Unit, total 10-28 max
5. **Priority-based:** Only Priority ≥15 scenarios (money, security, core flows)
6. **Test OUR code:** Don't test frameworks or external libraries
7. **Skip trivial code:** No tests for simple CRUD, framework code, getters/setters (E2E covers them)
8. **Fast feedback:** Unit tests must be fast (<5s), Integration moderate (<30s), E2E acceptable (<2min)
9. **Infrastructure updates (Step 3.1):** Use exact versions from task, verify docker-compose up works
10. **Documentation completeness (Step 3.2):** Update ALL docs (tests/README, README, CHANGELOG)
11. **Safe cleanup (Step 3.3):** Verify all tests still pass after removing legacy code
12. **No flaky tests:** All tests deterministic and stable
13. **Chat output prefix:** Always use ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] prefix for user visibility when orchestrated
14. **Research before fixing** - On unexpected test failures, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to find framework-specific solutions before custom workarounds

---

**Version:** 3.0.0 (Simplified workflow from 6 steps to 4 by grouping Step 3 (Infrastructure) + Step 4 (Documentation) + Step 5 (Legacy Cleanup) into Step 3: Update Project Files with 3 sub-steps, following Progressive Disclosure Pattern)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14
