ln-331-task-executor/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-331-task-executor
description: Executes implementation tasks (Todo → In Progress → To Review). Uses KISS/YAGNI, reads Technical Approach guides, runs type checks/linting. NOT for test tasks.
---

# Implementation Task Execution Skill

Execute approved implementation tasks ONLY (Todo → In Progress → To Review) with KISS/YAGNI principles and quality checks.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when executing approved implementation task (status = Todo):
- KISS/YAGNI implementation
- Type checking and linting
- Documentation during implementation
- Reads guide links from Task Technical Approach

**NOT for test tasks:** Use ln-334-test-executor for Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections with Fix Existing Tests, Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup)

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all Todo tasks
- ❌ NEVER update status for all tasks in the Story

## How It Works

> [!NOTE]
> **Checkpoint Sync (when invoked by ln-300-story-pipeline hierarchy):**
> - **Start:** Record `| timestamp | ln-331 | Acquired | from ln-330 |` in Ownership Log
> - **During work:** Mark `- [x]` checkboxes as steps complete (Guides read, Implementation completed, etc.)
> - **Before returning:**
>   - Mark `- [x]` final checkboxes with results (Quality gates passed, Status → To Review)
>   - Record `| timestamp | ln-331 | Released | to ln-330 |` in Ownership Log

### Phase 1: Read Referenced Guides (Automated)

**Objective**: Study architectural patterns before implementation.

**Steps:**
1. **Load Task description** from Linear (if task ID provided) or from user selection
2. **Extract guide links** from Task Technical Approach section
3. **Read referenced guides** from `docs/guides/` directory
4. **Study patterns:**
   - Understand principle and implementation approach
   - Review patterns and anti-patterns
   - Note library versions and constraints
5. **Apply knowledge** in Phase 4 implementation

**Purpose**: Ensure implementation follows project-specific architectural patterns established in guides.

**Note**: If no guide links in Task Technical Approach, skip this phase and proceed to Phase 2.

---

### Phase 2: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers project configuration:
- **Team ID:** Reads `docs/tasks/readme.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` → Linear Configuration
- **Project Docs:** Reads `CLAUDE.md` → Links to `docs/core/`, `docs/guides/`
- **Tracker:** Linear MCP integration

### Phase 3: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Load task:**
   - If task ID provided (e.g., API-42) → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List Todo tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Validate context:** Check dependencies, library versions, recent completed tasks
3. **Track progress:** Create TodoWrite todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (Todo → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### Todo"
     * Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Preserve Epic header and Story structure
   - Follow task checkboxes sequentially
   - Implement code using KISS/YAGNI principles
   - Address Existing Code Impact section
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting
   - Update task description with completed checkboxes (replace `- [ ]` with `- [x]`)
   - Add implementation summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Remove task line from In Progress
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
4. **Execute first todo:** Update status to "In Progress" in Linear
5. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement (Epic → Story → Task preserved)

### Phase 4: Implementation

**Documentation-First + KISS/YAGNI implementation:**
1. **Update documentation FIRST:**
   - Update STRUCTURE.md (if new components planned)
   - Update ARCHITECTURE.md (if architectural changes planned)
   - Update tests/README.md (for new test patterns)
   - Documentation acts as specification for implementation
2. **Follow task checkboxes:** Task description contains checkboxes - follow sequentially and verify completion
3. **Follow task details:** Goal, Technical Approach, Acceptance Criteria
4. **Implement code:** Simplest solution that meets requirements
5. **Code comments (15-20% ratio):**
   - Explain WHY (non-obvious logic), not WHAT (obvious from code)
   - NO Epic/task IDs, NO historical notes, NO code examples
   - Only critical technical details (database query optimizations, API quirks, constraints)
6. **Avoid hardcoded values:**
   - Extract magic numbers to named constants with WHY explanations
   - Move configuration to config files or environment variables
   - Never hardcode: paths, URLs, API endpoints, credentials, API keys
   - Example: Replace `setTimeout(5000)` with `setTimeout(config.timeoutMs) // 5000ms optimal for slow networks`
7. **Address Existing Code Impact:**
   - Complete all refactoring from task's "Existing Code Impact" section
   - Update all existing tests (maintain passing status)
   - Update all affected documentation
8. **Adding packages:**
   - Check latest compatible version (verify constraints, install latest)
   - Use `docs/manuals/{package}-{version}.md` if exists
   - Update: package.json, Dockerfile, compose, README

### Phase 5: Quality & Handoff

**Quality gates (all must pass):**
1. **Type checking:** No type errors
2. **Linting:** Code formatting and style checks

**Commands:** See project documentation for specific quality commands.

**Linear update:**
1. Update **this task's** description: Replace all `- [ ]` with `- [x]` to mark checkboxes completed (via `update_issue`)
2. Add summary comment: What was done, key decisions, challenges
3. Move **ONLY this task**: "In Progress" → "To Review"
4. Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for **ONLY this task**:
   - Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
   - Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)`
   - Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
5. **If implementation deviated from documented approach:**
   - Update task description with actual approach taken and rationale
   - Create/update relevant guide via ln-321-guide-creator (if new pattern discovered)
   - Create ADR via ln-322-adr-creator (if architectural decision changed)

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after code review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

> [!NOTE]
> Story status management is handled by ln-330-story-executor (orchestrator), not by ln-331-task-executor (worker). See Separation of Concerns principle.

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Implementation Complete:**
- [ ] All implementation steps from task description completed
- [ ] Code follows KISS/YAGNI principles (no over-engineering, no premature features)
- [ ] Guide patterns applied correctly (from Task Technical Approach links)
- [ ] No code duplication (checked existing codebase)
- [ ] "Existing Code Impact" section addressed: All refactoring completed, no backward compatibility / legacy code left

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code style compliant

**✅ Documentation Updated:**
- [ ] Inline comments added (15-20% ratio, WHY not WHAT, no Epic/Task IDs, no historical notes)
- [ ] STRUCTURE.md updated (if new components added)
- [ ] ARCHITECTURE.md updated (if architectural changes)
- [ ] tests/README.md updated (for test tasks: new test commands, setup instructions)

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Task description updated: All checkboxes marked [x] (replaced `- [ ]` with `- [x]` via update_issue)
- [ ] Summary comment added to Linear: What done, key decisions, challenges
- [ ] Task status changed: "In Progress" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated with hierarchical task movement:
  - Task found in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
  - Task line removed: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
  - Task line added to same Story section under "### To Review"
  - Epic header and Story structure preserved

**✅ Handoff Ready:**
- [ ] Chat output prefix used: ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] for all messages
- [ ] Final message: "⚙️ [EXECUTOR] Implementation complete. Quality gates passed. Ready for review."

**⛔ FORBIDDEN (workflow violation):**
- [ ] Task status is "To Review" (NOT "Done" - only ln-332-task-reviewer can set Done)
- [ ] Did NOT attempt to review own code (not executor's responsibility)
- [ ] Returned control to orchestrator/user after To Review

**Output:** Implementation task ready for ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Implementation task:**
```
Execute task API-42
```

## Best Practices

1. **Follow task description** - All details are in task (checkboxes, Technical Approach, AC)
2. **KISS and YAGNI** - Simplest solution that meets requirements
3. **Address Existing Code Impact** - Complete all refactoring, test updates, doc updates from task
4. **Documentation FIRST** - Update docs BEFORE coding (STRUCTURE.md, ARCHITECTURE.md as specification for implementation)
5. **Run quality gates continuously** - Don't wait until end (type checking, linting)
6. **Chat output prefix** - Always start chat messages with ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] prefix for user visibility when multiple skills are orchestrated
7. **Research before fixing** - On unexpected errors, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to find best practice before attempting fixes (avoid reinventing solutions)

> [!NOTE]

> For Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections with Fix Existing Tests, Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup), use **ln-334-test-executor** instead.

---

**Version:** 10.1.0 (Removed Story status update logic - this is now ln-330-story-executor's responsibility per Separation of Concerns principle)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14

Commit message:

Remove checkpoint sync notes and enforce status validation
Eliminates detailed checkpoint sync instructions from all SKILL.md files and simplifies checkpoint tracking in the pipeline. Adds strict status transition validation to ln-330-story-executor and related executors, ensuring only ln-332-task-reviewer can set tasks to Done. Updates checkpoint_format.md to a minimal progress checklist. Deletes the verification_log_template.md reference file.

ln-331-task-executor/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-331-task-executor
description: Executes implementation tasks (Todo → In Progress → To Review). Uses KISS/YAGNI, reads Technical Approach guides, runs type checks/linting. NOT for test tasks.
---

# Implementation Task Execution Skill

Execute approved implementation tasks ONLY (Todo → In Progress → To Review) with KISS/YAGNI principles and quality checks.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when executing approved implementation task (status = Todo):
- KISS/YAGNI implementation
- Type checking and linting
- Documentation during implementation
- Reads guide links from Task Technical Approach

**NOT for test tasks:** Use ln-334-test-executor for Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections with Fix Existing Tests, Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup)

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all Todo tasks
- ❌ NEVER update status for all tasks in the Story

## How It Works

### Phase 1: Read Referenced Guides (Automated)

**Objective**: Study architectural patterns before implementation.

**Steps:**
1. **Load Task description** from Linear (if task ID provided) or from user selection
2. **Extract guide links** from Task Technical Approach section
3. **Read referenced guides** from `docs/guides/` directory
4. **Study patterns:**
   - Understand principle and implementation approach
   - Review patterns and anti-patterns
   - Note library versions and constraints
5. **Apply knowledge** in Phase 4 implementation

**Purpose**: Ensure implementation follows project-specific architectural patterns established in guides.

**Note**: If no guide links in Task Technical Approach, skip this phase and proceed to Phase 2.

---

### Phase 2: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers project configuration:
- **Team ID:** Reads `docs/tasks/readme.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` → Linear Configuration
- **Project Docs:** Reads `CLAUDE.md` → Links to `docs/core/`, `docs/guides/`
- **Tracker:** Linear MCP integration

### Phase 3: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Load task:**
   - If task ID provided (e.g., API-42) → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List Todo tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Validate context:** Check dependencies, library versions, recent completed tasks
3. **Track progress:** Create TodoWrite todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (Todo → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### Todo"
     * Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Preserve Epic header and Story structure
   - Follow task checkboxes sequentially
   - Implement code using KISS/YAGNI principles
   - Address Existing Code Impact section
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting
   - Update task description with completed checkboxes (replace `- [ ]` with `- [x]`)
   - Add implementation summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Remove task line from In Progress
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
4. **Execute first todo:** Update status to "In Progress" in Linear
5. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement (Epic → Story → Task preserved)

### Phase 4: Implementation

**Documentation-First + KISS/YAGNI implementation:**
1. **Update documentation FIRST:**
   - Update STRUCTURE.md (if new components planned)
   - Update ARCHITECTURE.md (if architectural changes planned)
   - Update tests/README.md (for new test patterns)
   - Documentation acts as specification for implementation
2. **Follow task checkboxes:** Task description contains checkboxes - follow sequentially and verify completion
3. **Follow task details:** Goal, Technical Approach, Acceptance Criteria
4. **Implement code:** Simplest solution that meets requirements
5. **Code comments (15-20% ratio):**
   - Explain WHY (non-obvious logic), not WHAT (obvious from code)
   - NO Epic/task IDs, NO historical notes, NO code examples
   - Only critical technical details (database query optimizations, API quirks, constraints)
6. **Avoid hardcoded values:**
   - Extract magic numbers to named constants with WHY explanations
   - Move configuration to config files or environment variables
   - Never hardcode: paths, URLs, API endpoints, credentials, API keys
   - Example: Replace `setTimeout(5000)` with `setTimeout(config.timeoutMs) // 5000ms optimal for slow networks`
7. **Address Existing Code Impact:**
   - Complete all refactoring from task's "Existing Code Impact" section
   - Update all existing tests (maintain passing status)
   - Update all affected documentation
8. **Adding packages:**
   - Check latest compatible version (verify constraints, install latest)
   - Use `docs/manuals/{package}-{version}.md` if exists
   - Update: package.json, Dockerfile, compose, README

### Phase 5: Quality & Handoff

**Quality gates (all must pass):**
1. **Type checking:** No type errors
2. **Linting:** Code formatting and style checks

**Commands:** See project documentation for specific quality commands.

**Linear update:**
1. Update **this task's** description: Replace all `- [ ]` with `- [x]` to mark checkboxes completed (via `update_issue`)
2. Add summary comment: What was done, key decisions, challenges
3. Move **ONLY this task**: "In Progress" → "To Review"
4. Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for **ONLY this task**:
   - Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
   - Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)`
   - Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
5. **If implementation deviated from documented approach:**
   - Update task description with actual approach taken and rationale
   - Create/update relevant guide via ln-321-guide-creator (if new pattern discovered)
   - Create ADR via ln-322-adr-creator (if architectural decision changed)

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after code review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

> [!NOTE]
> Story status management is handled by ln-330-story-executor (orchestrator), not by ln-331-task-executor (worker). See Separation of Concerns principle.

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Implementation Complete:**
- [ ] All implementation steps from task description completed
- [ ] Code follows KISS/YAGNI principles (no over-engineering, no premature features)
- [ ] Guide patterns applied correctly (from Task Technical Approach links)
- [ ] No code duplication (checked existing codebase)
- [ ] "Existing Code Impact" section addressed: All refactoring completed, no backward compatibility / legacy code left

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code style compliant

**✅ Documentation Updated:**
- [ ] Inline comments added (15-20% ratio, WHY not WHAT, no Epic/Task IDs, no historical notes)
- [ ] STRUCTURE.md updated (if new components added)
- [ ] ARCHITECTURE.md updated (if architectural changes)
- [ ] tests/README.md updated (for test tasks: new test commands, setup instructions)

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Task description updated: All checkboxes marked [x] (replaced `- [ ]` with `- [x]` via update_issue)
- [ ] Summary comment added to Linear: What done, key decisions, challenges
- [ ] Task status changed: "In Progress" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated with hierarchical task movement:
  - Task found in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
  - Task line removed: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
  - Task line added to same Story section under "### To Review"
  - Epic header and Story structure preserved

**✅ Handoff Ready:**
- [ ] Chat output prefix used: ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] for all messages
- [ ] Final message: "⚙️ [EXECUTOR] Implementation complete. Quality gates passed. Ready for review."

**⛔ FORBIDDEN (workflow violation):**
- [ ] ⛔ **CRITICAL:** Task status is "To Review" (NEVER "Done" - only ln-332-task-reviewer can approve to Done)
- [ ] ⛔ **ln-330-story-executor validates status** - If task is Done, orchestrator reports worker violation error
- [ ] Did NOT attempt to review own code (not executor's responsibility)
- [ ] Returned control to orchestrator/user after To Review

**Output:** Implementation task ready for ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Implementation task:**
```
Execute task API-42
```

## Best Practices

1. **Follow task description** - All details are in task (checkboxes, Technical Approach, AC)
2. **KISS and YAGNI** - Simplest solution that meets requirements
3. **Address Existing Code Impact** - Complete all refactoring, test updates, doc updates from task
4. **Documentation FIRST** - Update docs BEFORE coding (STRUCTURE.md, ARCHITECTURE.md as specification for implementation)
5. **Run quality gates continuously** - Don't wait until end (type checking, linting)
6. **Chat output prefix** - Always start chat messages with ⚙️ [EXECUTOR] prefix for user visibility when multiple skills are orchestrated
7. **Research before fixing** - On unexpected errors, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to find best practice before attempting fixes (avoid reinventing solutions)

> [!NOTE]

> For Story Finalizer test tasks (11 sections with Fix Existing Tests, Infrastructure, Documentation, Legacy Cleanup), use **ln-334-test-executor** instead.

---

**Version:** 10.1.0 (Removed Story status update logic - this is now ln-330-story-executor's responsibility per Separation of Concerns principle)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14
