ln-343-manual-tester/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-343-manual-tester
description: Performs manual testing of Story AC via curl (API) or puppeteer (UI). Documents results in Linear with structured format. Creates reusable scripts. Worker skill - does NOT change statuses.
---

# Manual Tester Skill

Perform manual functional testing of Story Acceptance Criteria to verify implementation meets requirements.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when:
- Need to verify Story implementation before writing automated tests
- Part of Story Review (Phase 4 Step 3 in ln-330-story-executor)
- After regression tests pass (baseline stable)
- Before creating test task (manual testing informs test scenarios)

> [!NOTE]

> This is an atomic worker skill with single responsibility - it ONLY performs manual testing and documents results. It does NOT create fix tasks, change Story/Task statuses, or make workflow decisions.

## Workflow

> [!NOTE]
> **Checkpoint Sync (when invoked by ln-300-story-pipeline hierarchy):**
> - **End:** Record `| timestamp | ln-343 | Released | ln-340 |` in Ownership Log before returning to orchestrator

### Phase 1: Setup & Load

Setup test environment and load Story Acceptance Criteria.

**Sub-steps:**

**1.1 Setup Environment**
- Detect Story type from description/labels (API or UI)
- For API: Check health endpoint `curl http://localhost:8000/health`
- For UI: Launch puppeteer browser, navigate to base URL
- If not running → return ERROR ("Application not running")

**1.2 Load Acceptance Criteria**
- Load Story via `mcp__linear-server__get_issue(id=Story.id)`
- Parse Story description to extract AC section
- Parse AC into structured list: `Given ... When ... Then ...` format (3-5 AC expected)
- Each AC gets unique ID (AC1, AC2, AC3, etc.)
- If AC not found/malformed → return ERROR ("AC section missing or malformed")

**Output:**
- Story type detected (API/UI)
- Application status verified (RUNNING)
- Base URL determined
- Array of AC objects: `[{id: "AC1", given: "...", when: "...", then: "..."}]`
- Total AC count (3-5 expected)

### Phase 2: Test Execution

Execute comprehensive testing: Acceptance Criteria, Edge Cases, Error Handling, Integration Points.

> [!NOTE]
> **Research before concluding FAIL**: On unexpected behavior, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to verify expected API/framework behavior before marking test as failed (behavior may be correct per spec).

**Sub-steps:**

**2.1 Test Acceptance Criteria**
- For each AC:
  - API: Execute curl commands (e.g., `curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/login ...`)
  - UI: Execute puppeteer commands (e.g., `await page.fill('[name="email"]', ...)`)
  - Capture actual result
  - Compare with expected result (from "Then" clause)
  - Record verdict: PASS or FAIL
  - If FAIL: Record details (actual vs expected)
- Output: Array of AC results `[{ac_id: "AC1", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**2.2 Test Edge Cases**
- Parse Story "Edge Cases" section (if exists)
- Infer additional edge cases from AC (invalid credentials, boundary values, etc.)
- Execute 3-5 edge case tests
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of edge case results `[{case: "Invalid credentials", result: "FAIL", details: "..."}]`

**2.3 Test Error Handling**
- Test error scenarios: 400s, 500s, validation errors
- For API: Send requests designed to trigger each error
- For UI: Perform actions that should show error messages
- Verify: Correct HTTP status (API), user-friendly messages (UI), no stack traces exposed
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of error results `[{scenario: "401 Unauthorized", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**2.4 Test Integration Points**
- Parse Story "Implementation Tasks" for integration points
- Identify 2-3 critical integrations (Database, External APIs, Auth, File uploads, Email)
- Test each: Verify data flows, check error handling
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of integration results `[{integration: "Database persistence", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**Output:**
- Comprehensive test results across all categories (AC, edge cases, errors, integration)

### Phase 3: Document Results

Document results in Linear and create reusable testing script.

**Steps:**
1. Aggregate results from Phase 2 sub-steps (2.1-2.4: AC, edge cases, errors, integration)
2. Determine overall verdict:
   - `PASS`: All AC passed + no critical failures in edge cases/errors/integration
   - `FAIL`: At least one AC failed OR critical failure in edge cases/errors/integration
3. Format Linear comment (Format v1.0 - see references/test_result_format_v1.md)
4. Add comment to Story via `mcp__linear-server__create_comment(issueId, body)`
5. Create temporary testing script:
   - Path: `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`
   - Content: Executable bash script with all test commands
   - Purpose: Re-run tests after refactoring without typing commands again
6. Return JSON verdict

**Output:**
- Linear comment ID
- Temp script path
- JSON verdict (see Output Specification below)

## Input/Output Specification

### Input

**Required:**
- Story ID (e.g., "US001" or "API-42")

**Optional:**
- Base URL override (default: auto-detect from .env or localhost)
- Story type override (default: auto-detect from Story content)

### Output Format

Returns JSON object:

```json
{
  "verdict": "PASS" | "FAIL",
  "story_type": "API" | "UI",
  "story_id": "US001",
  "main_scenarios": [
    {
      "ac_id": "AC1",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Response 200, token valid, expires in 3600s"
    },
    {
      "ac_id": "AC2",
      "result": "FAIL",
      "details": "Expected 200 with redirect, got 401 Unauthorized"
    }
  ],
  "edge_cases": [
    {
      "case": "Invalid credentials",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Response 401, correct error message"
    }
  ],
  "error_handling": [
    {
      "scenario": "401 Unauthorized",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Correct status code + user-friendly message"
    }
  ],
  "integration": [
    {
      "integration": "Database persistence",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "User record saved with correct fields"
    }
  ],
  "linear_comment_id": "abc123",
  "temp_script_path": "scripts/tmp_US001.sh"
}
```

**Fields:**
- `verdict`: "PASS" if all AC passed + no critical failures, else "FAIL"
- `story_type`: Detected Story type (API or UI)
- `story_id`: Story identifier
- `main_scenarios`: Array of AC test results (Phase 3)
- `edge_cases`: Array of edge case test results (Phase 4)
- `error_handling`: Array of error handling test results (Phase 5)
- `integration`: Array of integration test results (Phase 6)
- `linear_comment_id`: ID of Linear comment with formatted results
- `temp_script_path`: Path to temporary testing script for re-running tests

## Testing Patterns

### API Testing with curl

**Pattern 1: Simple GET request**
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 2: POST with JSON body**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "user@example.com", "password": "test123"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 3: PUT with authentication**
```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"name": "Updated Name"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 4: DELETE request**
```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

### UI Testing with puppeteer

**Pattern 1: Form submission**
```javascript
await page.goto('http://localhost:3000/login');
await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'user@example.com');
await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'test123');
await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
await page.waitForURL('**/dashboard');
```

**Pattern 2: Navigation and assertion**
```javascript
await page.goto('http://localhost:3000/users');
const heading = await page.textContent('h1');
expect(heading).toBe('User List');
```

**Pattern 3: Element interaction**
```javascript
await page.click('button[data-testid="add-user"]');
await page.waitForSelector('form[data-testid="user-form"]');
```

**Pattern 4: Screenshot capture (on failure)**
```javascript
try {
  await page.click('button.non-existent');
} catch (error) {
  await page.screenshot({ path: 'screenshots/failure.png' });
  throw error;
}
```

## Technical Details

### Story Type Detection

**API Story indicators:**
- Description contains: "API endpoint", "REST API", "HTTP"
- Labels: "api", "backend", "endpoint"
- AC mentions HTTP methods: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
- Implementation tasks mention "controller", "router", "endpoint"

**UI Story indicators:**
- Description contains: "UI", "frontend", "page", "component"
- Labels: "ui", "frontend", "react", "vue"
- AC mentions UI elements: "button", "form", "modal", "page"
- Implementation tasks mention "component", "view", "UI"

**Ambiguous Stories:**
- If both API and UI indicators present → default to API (test backend first)
- User can override via Story type parameter

### Temporary Testing Script Format

Created at `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Temporary manual testing script for Story US001
# Created: 2025-11-13
# Purpose: Reusable tests - run after refactoring instead of typing commands again
# Deleted by: ln-334-test-executor Step 6 (after E2E/Integration/Unit tests implemented)

BASE_URL="http://localhost:8000"
TOKEN="your_auth_token_here"

echo "Testing AC1: User login"
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "user@example.com", "password": "test123"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"

echo "Testing AC2: Get user profile"
curl -X GET $BASE_URL/api/users/me \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"

# Edge case: Invalid credentials
echo "Edge case: Invalid credentials"
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "wrong@example.com", "password": "wrong"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Permissions:** Make executable with `chmod +x scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`

**Lifecycle:**
- Created: ln-343-manual-tester Phase 7
- Used: Re-run after refactoring/fixes
- Deleted: ln-334-test-executor Step 6 (after automated tests implemented)

### Linear Comment Format (v1.0)

See `references/test_result_format_v1.md` for complete specification.

**Structure:**
```markdown
## 🎯 Manual Testing Results

**Verdict:** ✅ PASS | ❌ FAIL
**Story Type:** API | UI
**Tested:** 2025-11-13 14:30 UTC

### Main Scenarios (Acceptance Criteria)

**AC1:** Given authenticated user, When POST /api/login, Then return 200 with token
- Result: ✅ PASS
- Details: Response 200, token valid, expires in 3600s

**AC2:** Given valid token, When GET /api/users/me, Then return user profile
- Result: ❌ FAIL
- Details: Expected 200 with user data, got 401 Unauthorized

### Edge Cases

- **Invalid credentials:** ✅ PASS - Response 401, correct error message
- **Empty email field:** ✅ PASS - Response 422, validation error shown

### Error Handling

- **401 Unauthorized:** ✅ PASS - Correct status + user-friendly message
- **500 Server Error:** ❌ FAIL - Stack trace exposed to user

### Integration Points

- **Database persistence:** ✅ PASS - User record saved correctly
- **Token generation:** ✅ PASS - JWT token valid and properly signed

### Temporary Testing Script

Reusable testing script created at: `scripts/tmp_US001.sh`
Run with: `./scripts/tmp_US001.sh`
```

### Error Handling

**If application not running:**
- Return verdict: "ERROR"
- Add Linear comment: "⚠️ Cannot test - application not running. Start server first."
- temp_script_path: null

**If AC section missing/malformed:**
- Return verdict: "ERROR"
- Add Linear comment: "⚠️ Cannot test - Acceptance Criteria section missing or malformed in Story"
- temp_script_path: null

**If puppeteer fails (UI testing):**
- Take screenshot on failure
- Add screenshot path to Linear comment
- Continue testing other AC (don't abort entire test suite)

### NOT Responsible For

This skill does NOT:
- Create fix tasks in Linear (ln-330-story-executor creates tasks)
- Change Story or Task statuses (ln-330-story-executor manages statuses)
- Make workflow decisions (ln-330-story-executor decides next step)
- Run automated tests (that's ln-342-regression-checker or ln-334-test-executor)
- Create test task (that's ln-350-story-test-planner)

**Rationale:** Single Responsibility Principle - this skill ONLY performs manual testing and documents results. All workflow logic belongs to ln-330-story-executor orchestrator.

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**Phase 1: Setup & Load**
- [ ] Story type detected (API/UI), base URL determined
- [ ] Application verified (health check for API, browser start for UI)
- [ ] Story loaded from Linear, Acceptance Criteria section parsed
- [ ] 3-5 AC in Given-When-Then format extracted, each assigned unique ID

**Phase 2: Test Execution**
- [ ] All AC tested (curl for API, puppeteer for UI), actual results saved in `details`
- [ ] Edge cases (3-5) and error handling scenarios (400/500 and other key codes) verified
- [ ] Integration points (2-3) covered with data/processing checks
- [ ] On puppeteer failures: capture screenshot, add path to Linear, continue other scenarios

**Phase 3: Document Results**
- [ ] Final verdict determined (`PASS`/`FAIL`/`ERROR`), Linear comment added in Format v1.0
- [ ] Temporary script created at `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` (POSIX script; run via Git Bash/WSL on Windows)
- [ ] Script marked executable (chmod +x), path returned in final JSON
- [ ] JSON result returned with fields: verdict, linear_comment_id, temp_script_path, details

**Error Handling**
- [ ] If application not running → verdict `ERROR`, comment with instruction "Start server"
- [ ] If AC section missing/malformed → verdict `ERROR`, comment with recommendation to fix Story
- [ ] On puppeteer crashes → save screenshot, add path to comment, continue testing

**Output**
- JSON verdict with detailed results
- Linear comment (Format v1.0)
- Temporary script for re-running tests
- No side effects (tasks/statuses untouched)
---

**Version:** 2.0.0 (Simplified workflow from 7 phases to 3 by grouping related testing steps: Phase 1 Setup & Load (1-2), Phase 2 Test Execution (3-6 sub-steps: AC, edge cases, errors, integration), Phase 3 Document Results (7))
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14

Commit message:

Add linter check phase and update checkpoint sync logs
Introduces a dedicated linter/code quality tools section in tech_stack_template.md and adds a new Phase 3.5 'Linter Check' to the story pipeline and quality gate documentation. Updates SKILL.md files for all relevant modules to record both 'Acquired' and 'Released' events in the Ownership Log for checkpoint sync, and clarifies mandatory Docker rebuild steps for manual testing. Ensures all project linters are run and must pass (0 errors) before regression and manual testing phases.

ln-343-manual-tester/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-343-manual-tester
description: Performs manual testing of Story AC via curl (API) or puppeteer (UI). Documents results in Linear with structured format. Creates reusable scripts. Worker skill - does NOT change statuses.
---

# Manual Tester Skill

Perform manual functional testing of Story Acceptance Criteria to verify implementation meets requirements.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when:
- Need to verify Story implementation before writing automated tests
- Part of Story Review (Phase 4 Step 3 in ln-330-story-executor)
- After regression tests pass (baseline stable)
- Before creating test task (manual testing informs test scenarios)

> [!NOTE]

> This is an atomic worker skill with single responsibility - it ONLY performs manual testing and documents results. It does NOT create fix tasks, change Story/Task statuses, or make workflow decisions.

## Workflow

> [!NOTE]
> **Checkpoint Sync (when invoked by ln-300-story-pipeline hierarchy):**
> - **Start:** Record `| timestamp | ln-343 | Acquired | from ln-340 |` in Ownership Log
> - **End:** Record `| timestamp | ln-343 | Released | to ln-340 |` in Ownership Log before returning

### Phase 1: Setup & Load

Setup test environment and load Story Acceptance Criteria.

**Sub-steps:**

**1.1 Setup Environment**

> [!WARNING]
> **MANDATORY Docker Rebuild:** Always rebuild Docker containers before testing to ensure ALL code changes are included. Skipping this step may test outdated code.

- **Step 1: Rebuild Docker containers (REQUIRED)**
  - Stop running containers: `docker-compose down` (or `docker compose down`)
  - Rebuild with no cache: `docker-compose build --no-cache` (or `docker compose build --no-cache`)
  - Start containers: `docker-compose up -d` (or `docker compose up -d`)
  - Wait for containers to be healthy (10-30 seconds, check logs)
  - If rebuild fails → return ERROR ("Docker rebuild failed: [error details]")

- **Step 2: Verify application running**
  - Detect Story type from description/labels (API or UI)
  - For API: Check health endpoint `curl http://localhost:8000/health`
  - For UI: Launch puppeteer browser, navigate to base URL
  - If not running → return ERROR ("Application not running")

**1.2 Load Acceptance Criteria**
- Load Story via `mcp__linear-server__get_issue(id=Story.id)`
- Parse Story description to extract AC section
- Parse AC into structured list: `Given ... When ... Then ...` format (3-5 AC expected)
- Each AC gets unique ID (AC1, AC2, AC3, etc.)
- If AC not found/malformed → return ERROR ("AC section missing or malformed")

**Output:**
- Story type detected (API/UI)
- Application status verified (RUNNING)
- Base URL determined
- Array of AC objects: `[{id: "AC1", given: "...", when: "...", then: "..."}]`
- Total AC count (3-5 expected)

### Phase 2: Test Execution

Execute comprehensive testing: Acceptance Criteria, Edge Cases, Error Handling, Integration Points.

> [!NOTE]
> **Research before concluding FAIL**: On unexpected behavior, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to verify expected API/framework behavior before marking test as failed (behavior may be correct per spec).

**Sub-steps:**

**2.1 Test Acceptance Criteria**
- For each AC:
  - API: Execute curl commands (e.g., `curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/login ...`)
  - UI: Execute puppeteer commands (e.g., `await page.fill('[name="email"]', ...)`)
  - Capture actual result
  - Compare with expected result (from "Then" clause)
  - Record verdict: PASS or FAIL
  - If FAIL: Record details (actual vs expected)
- Output: Array of AC results `[{ac_id: "AC1", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**2.2 Test Edge Cases**
- Parse Story "Edge Cases" section (if exists)
- Infer additional edge cases from AC (invalid credentials, boundary values, etc.)
- Execute 3-5 edge case tests
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of edge case results `[{case: "Invalid credentials", result: "FAIL", details: "..."}]`

**2.3 Test Error Handling**
- Test error scenarios: 400s, 500s, validation errors
- For API: Send requests designed to trigger each error
- For UI: Perform actions that should show error messages
- Verify: Correct HTTP status (API), user-friendly messages (UI), no stack traces exposed
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of error results `[{scenario: "401 Unauthorized", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**2.4 Test Integration Points**
- Parse Story "Implementation Tasks" for integration points
- Identify 2-3 critical integrations (Database, External APIs, Auth, File uploads, Email)
- Test each: Verify data flows, check error handling
- Record results (PASS/FAIL)
- Output: Array of integration results `[{integration: "Database persistence", result: "PASS", details: "..."}]`

**Output:**
- Comprehensive test results across all categories (AC, edge cases, errors, integration)

### Phase 3: Document Results

Document results in Linear and create reusable testing script.

**Steps:**
1. Aggregate results from Phase 2 sub-steps (2.1-2.4: AC, edge cases, errors, integration)
2. Determine overall verdict:
   - `PASS`: All AC passed + no critical failures in edge cases/errors/integration
   - `FAIL`: At least one AC failed OR critical failure in edge cases/errors/integration
3. Format Linear comment (Format v1.0 - see references/test_result_format_v1.md)
4. Add comment to Story via `mcp__linear-server__create_comment(issueId, body)`
5. Create temporary testing script:
   - Path: `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`
   - Content: Executable bash script with all test commands
   - Purpose: Re-run tests after refactoring without typing commands again
6. Return JSON verdict

**Output:**
- Linear comment ID
- Temp script path
- JSON verdict (see Output Specification below)

## Input/Output Specification

### Input

**Required:**
- Story ID (e.g., "US001" or "API-42")

**Optional:**
- Base URL override (default: auto-detect from .env or localhost)
- Story type override (default: auto-detect from Story content)

### Output Format

Returns JSON object:

```json
{
  "verdict": "PASS" | "FAIL",
  "story_type": "API" | "UI",
  "story_id": "US001",
  "main_scenarios": [
    {
      "ac_id": "AC1",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Response 200, token valid, expires in 3600s"
    },
    {
      "ac_id": "AC2",
      "result": "FAIL",
      "details": "Expected 200 with redirect, got 401 Unauthorized"
    }
  ],
  "edge_cases": [
    {
      "case": "Invalid credentials",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Response 401, correct error message"
    }
  ],
  "error_handling": [
    {
      "scenario": "401 Unauthorized",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "Correct status code + user-friendly message"
    }
  ],
  "integration": [
    {
      "integration": "Database persistence",
      "result": "PASS",
      "details": "User record saved with correct fields"
    }
  ],
  "linear_comment_id": "abc123",
  "temp_script_path": "scripts/tmp_US001.sh"
}
```

**Fields:**
- `verdict`: "PASS" if all AC passed + no critical failures, else "FAIL"
- `story_type`: Detected Story type (API or UI)
- `story_id`: Story identifier
- `main_scenarios`: Array of AC test results (Phase 3)
- `edge_cases`: Array of edge case test results (Phase 4)
- `error_handling`: Array of error handling test results (Phase 5)
- `integration`: Array of integration test results (Phase 6)
- `linear_comment_id`: ID of Linear comment with formatted results
- `temp_script_path`: Path to temporary testing script for re-running tests

## Testing Patterns

### API Testing with curl

**Pattern 1: Simple GET request**
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 2: POST with JSON body**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "user@example.com", "password": "test123"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 3: PUT with authentication**
```bash
curl -X PUT http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"name": "Updated Name"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Pattern 4: DELETE request**
```bash
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8000/api/users/123 \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

### UI Testing with puppeteer

**Pattern 1: Form submission**
```javascript
await page.goto('http://localhost:3000/login');
await page.fill('[name="email"]', 'user@example.com');
await page.fill('[name="password"]', 'test123');
await page.click('button[type="submit"]');
await page.waitForURL('**/dashboard');
```

**Pattern 2: Navigation and assertion**
```javascript
await page.goto('http://localhost:3000/users');
const heading = await page.textContent('h1');
expect(heading).toBe('User List');
```

**Pattern 3: Element interaction**
```javascript
await page.click('button[data-testid="add-user"]');
await page.waitForSelector('form[data-testid="user-form"]');
```

**Pattern 4: Screenshot capture (on failure)**
```javascript
try {
  await page.click('button.non-existent');
} catch (error) {
  await page.screenshot({ path: 'screenshots/failure.png' });
  throw error;
}
```

## Technical Details

### Story Type Detection

**API Story indicators:**
- Description contains: "API endpoint", "REST API", "HTTP"
- Labels: "api", "backend", "endpoint"
- AC mentions HTTP methods: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
- Implementation tasks mention "controller", "router", "endpoint"

**UI Story indicators:**
- Description contains: "UI", "frontend", "page", "component"
- Labels: "ui", "frontend", "react", "vue"
- AC mentions UI elements: "button", "form", "modal", "page"
- Implementation tasks mention "component", "view", "UI"

**Ambiguous Stories:**
- If both API and UI indicators present → default to API (test backend first)
- User can override via Story type parameter

### Temporary Testing Script Format

Created at `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Temporary manual testing script for Story US001
# Created: 2025-11-13
# Purpose: Reusable tests - run after refactoring instead of typing commands again
# Deleted by: ln-334-test-executor Step 6 (after E2E/Integration/Unit tests implemented)

BASE_URL="http://localhost:8000"
TOKEN="your_auth_token_here"

echo "Testing AC1: User login"
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "user@example.com", "password": "test123"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"

echo "Testing AC2: Get user profile"
curl -X GET $BASE_URL/api/users/me \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"

# Edge case: Invalid credentials
echo "Edge case: Invalid credentials"
curl -X POST $BASE_URL/api/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email": "wrong@example.com", "password": "wrong"}' \
  -w "\\nHTTP Status: %{http_code}\\n"
```

**Permissions:** Make executable with `chmod +x scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh`

**Lifecycle:**
- Created: ln-343-manual-tester Phase 7
- Used: Re-run after refactoring/fixes
- Deleted: ln-334-test-executor Step 6 (after automated tests implemented)

### Linear Comment Format (v1.0)

See `references/test_result_format_v1.md` for complete specification.

**Structure:**
```markdown
## 🎯 Manual Testing Results

**Verdict:** ✅ PASS | ❌ FAIL
**Story Type:** API | UI
**Tested:** 2025-11-13 14:30 UTC

### Main Scenarios (Acceptance Criteria)

**AC1:** Given authenticated user, When POST /api/login, Then return 200 with token
- Result: ✅ PASS
- Details: Response 200, token valid, expires in 3600s

**AC2:** Given valid token, When GET /api/users/me, Then return user profile
- Result: ❌ FAIL
- Details: Expected 200 with user data, got 401 Unauthorized

### Edge Cases

- **Invalid credentials:** ✅ PASS - Response 401, correct error message
- **Empty email field:** ✅ PASS - Response 422, validation error shown

### Error Handling

- **401 Unauthorized:** ✅ PASS - Correct status + user-friendly message
- **500 Server Error:** ❌ FAIL - Stack trace exposed to user

### Integration Points

- **Database persistence:** ✅ PASS - User record saved correctly
- **Token generation:** ✅ PASS - JWT token valid and properly signed

### Temporary Testing Script

Reusable testing script created at: `scripts/tmp_US001.sh`
Run with: `./scripts/tmp_US001.sh`
```

### Error Handling

**If application not running:**
- Return verdict: "ERROR"
- Add Linear comment: "⚠️ Cannot test - application not running. Start server first."
- temp_script_path: null

**If AC section missing/malformed:**
- Return verdict: "ERROR"
- Add Linear comment: "⚠️ Cannot test - Acceptance Criteria section missing or malformed in Story"
- temp_script_path: null

**If puppeteer fails (UI testing):**
- Take screenshot on failure
- Add screenshot path to Linear comment
- Continue testing other AC (don't abort entire test suite)

### NOT Responsible For

This skill does NOT:
- Create fix tasks in Linear (ln-330-story-executor creates tasks)
- Change Story or Task statuses (ln-330-story-executor manages statuses)
- Make workflow decisions (ln-330-story-executor decides next step)
- Run automated tests (that's ln-342-regression-checker or ln-334-test-executor)
- Create test task (that's ln-350-story-test-planner)

**Rationale:** Single Responsibility Principle - this skill ONLY performs manual testing and documents results. All workflow logic belongs to ln-330-story-executor orchestrator.

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**Phase 1: Setup & Load**
- [ ] Docker containers rebuilt with `--no-cache` (MANDATORY - ensures all code changes included)
- [ ] Containers started and healthy (docker-compose up -d, wait for health)
- [ ] Story type detected (API/UI), base URL determined
- [ ] Application verified (health check for API, browser start for UI)
- [ ] Story loaded from Linear, Acceptance Criteria section parsed
- [ ] 3-5 AC in Given-When-Then format extracted, each assigned unique ID

**Phase 2: Test Execution**
- [ ] All AC tested (curl for API, puppeteer for UI), actual results saved in `details`
- [ ] Edge cases (3-5) and error handling scenarios (400/500 and other key codes) verified
- [ ] Integration points (2-3) covered with data/processing checks
- [ ] On puppeteer failures: capture screenshot, add path to Linear, continue other scenarios

**Phase 3: Document Results**
- [ ] Final verdict determined (`PASS`/`FAIL`/`ERROR`), Linear comment added in Format v1.0
- [ ] Temporary script created at `scripts/tmp_[story_id].sh` (POSIX script; run via Git Bash/WSL on Windows)
- [ ] Script marked executable (chmod +x), path returned in final JSON
- [ ] JSON result returned with fields: verdict, linear_comment_id, temp_script_path, details

**Error Handling**
- [ ] If application not running → verdict `ERROR`, comment with instruction "Start server"
- [ ] If AC section missing/malformed → verdict `ERROR`, comment with recommendation to fix Story
- [ ] On puppeteer crashes → save screenshot, add path to comment, continue testing

**Output**
- JSON verdict with detailed results
- Linear comment (Format v1.0)
- Temporary script for re-running tests
- No side effects (tasks/statuses untouched)
---

**Version:** 2.0.0 (Simplified workflow from 7 phases to 3 by grouping related testing steps: Phase 1 Setup & Load (1-2), Phase 2 Test Execution (3-6 sub-steps: AC, edge cases, errors, integration), Phase 3 Document Results (7))
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-14
