ln-170-code-comments-auditor/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-170-code-comments-auditor
description: Audit code comments and docstrings quality across 6 categories (WHY-not-WHAT, Density, Forbidden Content, Docstrings, Actuality, Legacy). Use when code needs comment review, after major refactoring, or as part of ln-100-documents-pipeline. Outputs Compliance Score X/10 per category + Findings + Recommended Actions.
---

# Code Comments Auditor

Audit code comments and docstrings quality. Universal for any tech stack.

## Purpose

- Verify comments explain WHY, not obvious WHAT
- Check comment density (15-20% ratio)
- Detect forbidden content (dates, author names, historical notes)
- Validate docstrings match function signatures
- Ensure comments match current code state
- Identify legacy comments and commented-out code

## Invocation

- **Direct:** User invokes for code comment quality review
- **Pipeline:** Called by ln-100-documents-pipeline (Phase 5, if auditComments=true)

## Workflow

1. **Scan:** Find all source files (auto-detect tech stack)
2. **Extract:** Parse inline comments + docstrings/JSDoc
3. **Audit:** Run 6 category checks (see Audit Categories below)
4. **Score:** Calculate X/10 per category
5. **Report:** Output findings and recommended actions

## Audit Categories

| # | Category | What to Check |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 1 | **WHY not WHAT** | Comments explain rationale, not obvious code behavior; no restating code |
| 2 | **Density (15-20%)** | Comment-to-code ratio within range; not over/under-commented |
| 3 | **No Forbidden Content** | No dates/authors; no historical notes; no code examples in comments |
| 4 | **Docstrings Quality** | Match function signatures; parameters documented; return types accurate |
| 5 | **Actuality** | Comments match code behavior; no stale references; examples runnable |
| 6 | **Legacy Cleanup** | No TODO without context; no commented-out code; no deprecated notes |

## Output Format

```markdown
## Code Comments Audit Report - [DATE]

### Compliance Score

| Category | Score | Issues |
|----------|-------|--------|
| WHY not WHAT | X/10 | N obvious comments |
| Density (15-20%) | X/10 | X% actual (target: 15-20%) |
| No Forbidden Content | X/10 | N forbidden items |
| Docstrings Quality | X/10 | N mismatches |
| Actuality | X/10 | N stale comments |
| Legacy Cleanup | X/10 | N legacy items |
| **Overall** | **X/10** | |

### Critical Findings

- [ ] **[Category]** `path/file:line` - Issue description. **Action:** Fix suggestion.

### Recommended Actions

| Priority | Action | Location | Category |
|----------|--------|----------|----------|
| High | Remove author name | src/X:45 | Forbidden |
| Medium | Update stale docstring | lib/Y:120 | Actuality |
```

## Scoring Rules

| Score | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| 10/10 | No issues |
| 8-9/10 | Minor issues (small density deviation, few obvious comments) |
| 6-7/10 | Moderate issues (stale docstrings, some forbidden content) |
| 4-5/10 | Significant issues (major density problems, outdated comments) |
| 1-3/10 | Critical issues (author names, commented-out code blocks, broken docstrings) |

## Reference Files

- Comment rules and patterns: [references/comments_rules.md](references/comments_rules.md)

## Critical Notes

- **Code is truth:** When comment contradicts code, flag comment for update
- **WHY > WHAT:** Comments explaining obvious behavior should be removed
- **Task IDs OK:** Task/Story IDs in comments help with code traceability
- **Universal:** Works with any language; detect comment syntax automatically
- **Based on:** Claude Code comment-analyzer agent patterns

---
**Version:** 1.0.0
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-20

Commit message:

no code blocs in docs

ln-170-code-comments-auditor/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-170-code-comments-auditor
description: Audit code comments and docstrings quality across 6 categories (WHY-not-WHAT, Density, Forbidden Content, Docstrings, Actuality, Legacy). Use when code needs comment review, after major refactoring, or as part of ln-100-documents-pipeline. Outputs Compliance Score X/10 per category + Findings + Recommended Actions.
---

# Code Comments Auditor

Audit code comments and docstrings quality. Universal for any tech stack.

## Purpose

- Verify comments explain WHY, not obvious WHAT
- Check comment density (15-20% ratio)
- Detect forbidden content (dates, author names, historical notes)
- Validate docstrings match function signatures
- Ensure comments match current code state
- Identify legacy comments and commented-out code

## Invocation

- **Direct:** User invokes for code comment quality review
- **Pipeline:** Called by ln-100-documents-pipeline (Phase 5, if auditComments=true)

## Workflow

1. **Scan:** Find all source files (auto-detect tech stack)
2. **Extract:** Parse inline comments + docstrings/JSDoc
3. **Audit:** Run 6 category checks (see Audit Categories below)
4. **Score:** Calculate X/10 per category
5. **Report:** Output findings and recommended actions

## Audit Categories

| # | Category | What to Check |
|---|----------|---------------|
| 1 | **WHY not WHAT** | Comments explain rationale, not obvious code behavior; no restating code |
| 2 | **Density (15-20%)** | Comment-to-code ratio within range; not over/under-commented |
| 3 | **No Forbidden Content** | No dates/authors; no historical notes; no code examples in comments |
| 4 | **Docstrings Quality** | Match function signatures; parameters documented; return types accurate |
| 5 | **Actuality** | Comments match code behavior; no stale references; examples runnable |
| 6 | **Legacy Cleanup** | No TODO without context; no commented-out code; no deprecated notes |

## Output Format

```markdown
## Code Comments Audit Report - [DATE]

### Compliance Score

| Category | Score | Issues |
|----------|-------|--------|
| WHY not WHAT | X/10 | N obvious comments |
| Density (15-20%) | X/10 | X% actual (target: 15-20%) |
| No Forbidden Content | X/10 | N forbidden items |
| Docstrings Quality | X/10 | N mismatches |
| Actuality | X/10 | N stale comments |
| Legacy Cleanup | X/10 | N legacy items |
| **Overall** | **X/10** | |

### Critical Findings

- [ ] **[Category]** `path/file:line` - Issue description. **Action:** Fix suggestion.

### Recommended Actions

| Priority | Action | Location | Category |
|----------|--------|----------|----------|
| High | Remove author name | src/X:45 | Forbidden |
| Medium | Update stale docstring | lib/Y:120 | Actuality |
```

## Scoring Rules

| Score | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| 10/10 | No issues |
| 8-9/10 | Minor issues (small density deviation, few obvious comments) |
| 6-7/10 | Moderate issues (stale docstrings, some forbidden content) |
| 4-5/10 | Significant issues (major density problems, outdated comments) |
| 1-3/10 | Critical issues (author names, commented-out code blocks, broken docstrings) |

## Reference Files

- Comment rules and patterns: [references/comments_rules.md](references/comments_rules.md)

## Critical Notes

- **Fix code, not rules:** NEVER modify rules files (*_rules.md, *_standards.md) to make violations pass. Always fix the code instead.
- **Code is truth:** When comment contradicts code, flag comment for update
- **WHY > WHAT:** Comments explaining obvious behavior should be removed
- **Task IDs OK:** Task/Story IDs in comments help with code traceability
- **Universal:** Works with any language; detect comment syntax automatically
- **Based on:** Claude Code comment-analyzer agent patterns

---
**Version:** 1.0.0
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-20
