ln-402-task-reviewer/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-402-task-reviewer
description: Reviews completed tasks (To Review) and moves them to Done or To Rework. Zero tolerance: all issues fixed now.
---

# Task Reviewer

Reviews a single task in To Review and decides Done vs To Rework with immediate fixes or clear rework notes.

## Purpose & Scope
- Load full task and parent Story; understand AC, context, and Technical Approach.
- Check architecture, correctness, configuration hygiene, docs, and tests.
- For test tasks, verify risk-based limits and priority (≤15) per planner template.
- Update only this task: accept (Done) or send back (To Rework) with explicit reasons and fix suggestions tied to best practices.

## Workflow (concise)
1) **Receive task:** Get task ID from orchestrator (ln-400); detect type (label "tests" -> test task, else implementation/refactor).
2) **Read context:** Full task + parent Story; load affected components/docs; review diffs if available.
3) **Review checks:**
   - Approach matches Technical Approach or better (documented rationale).
   - No hardcoded creds/URLs/magic numbers; config in env/config.
   - Error handling sane; layering respected; reuse existing components.
   - Logging: critical paths logged (errors, business events); correct log levels (DEBUG/INFO/WARNING/ERROR).
   - Comments: explain WHY not WHAT; no commented-out code; docstrings on public methods; Task ID present in new code blocks (`// See PROJ-123`).
   - Naming: consistent conventions; descriptive names; no single-letter variables (except loops).
   - Docs updated where required.
   - Tests updated/run: for impl/refactor ensure affected tests adjusted; for test tasks verify risk-based limits and priority (≤15) per planner template.
4) **Decision:**  
   - If only nits: apply minor fixes and set Done.  
   - If issues remain: set To Rework with comment explaining why (best-practice ref) and how to fix.
5) **Update:** Set task status (Done or To Rework) in Linear; move task in kanban accordingly; add review comment with findings/actions.

## Critical Rules
- One task at a time; do not touch others.
- Zero tolerance: no deferring issues; either fix now or send back with guidance.
- Keep language of the task (EN/RU) in comments/edits.
- If test-task limits/priority violated -> To Rework with guidance.
- Never leave task Done if any unresolved issue exists.

## Definition of Done
- Task and parent Story fully read; type identified.
- Review checklist completed; docs/tests/config verified.
- Decision applied: Done (minor fixes applied) or To Rework (issues + fix guidance).
- Linear status and kanban updated for this task; review comment posted with reasons and suggested fixes.

## Reference Files
- Kanban format: `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md`

---
**Version:** 3.0.0
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-23

Commit message:

Update kanban/task templates and SKILL docs for Done/Postponed rules
Kanban and task templates now specify that Done and Postponed sections contain only Stories, not Tasks; tasks are removed from kanban when their Story is completed or postponed. SKILL.md files for story executor and task reviewer updated to clarify Plan Mode support and kanban update logic, ensuring tasks are removed from kanban upon completion and only Stories are tracked in Done/Postponed.

ln-402-task-reviewer/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-402-task-reviewer
description: Reviews completed tasks (To Review) and moves them to Done or To Rework. Zero tolerance: all issues fixed now.
---

# Task Reviewer

Reviews a single task in To Review and decides Done vs To Rework with immediate fixes or clear rework notes.

## Purpose & Scope
- Load full task and parent Story; understand AC, context, and Technical Approach.
- Check architecture, correctness, configuration hygiene, docs, and tests.
- For test tasks, verify risk-based limits and priority (≤15) per planner template.
- Update only this task: accept (Done) or send back (To Rework) with explicit reasons and fix suggestions tied to best practices.

## Workflow (concise)
1) **Receive task:** Get task ID from orchestrator (ln-400); detect type (label "tests" -> test task, else implementation/refactor).
2) **Read context:** Full task + parent Story; load affected components/docs; review diffs if available.
3) **Review checks:**
   - Approach matches Technical Approach or better (documented rationale).
   - No hardcoded creds/URLs/magic numbers; config in env/config.
   - Error handling sane; layering respected; reuse existing components.
   - Logging: critical paths logged (errors, business events); correct log levels (DEBUG/INFO/WARNING/ERROR).
   - Comments: explain WHY not WHAT; no commented-out code; docstrings on public methods; Task ID present in new code blocks (`// See PROJ-123`).
   - Naming: consistent conventions; descriptive names; no single-letter variables (except loops).
   - Docs updated where required.
   - Tests updated/run: for impl/refactor ensure affected tests adjusted; for test tasks verify risk-based limits and priority (≤15) per planner template.
4) **Decision:**  
   - If only nits: apply minor fixes and set Done.  
   - If issues remain: set To Rework with comment explaining why (best-practice ref) and how to fix.
5) **Update:** Set task status in Linear; update kanban: if Done → **remove task from kanban** (Done section tracks Stories only, not individual Tasks); if To Rework → move task to To Rework section; add review comment with findings/actions.

## Critical Rules
- One task at a time; do not touch others.
- Zero tolerance: no deferring issues; either fix now or send back with guidance.
- Keep language of the task (EN/RU) in comments/edits.
- If test-task limits/priority violated -> To Rework with guidance.
- Never leave task Done if any unresolved issue exists.
- **Kanban Done section:** Contains Stories only, NOT Tasks. When Task → Done, remove it from kanban entirely.

## Definition of Done
- Task and parent Story fully read; type identified.
- Review checklist completed; docs/tests/config verified.
- Decision applied: Done (minor fixes applied) or To Rework (issues + fix guidance).
- Linear status updated; kanban updated (if Done → task removed from kanban; if To Rework → task moved to To Rework section); review comment posted.

## Reference Files
- Kanban format: `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md`

---
**Version:** 3.0.0
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-23
