ln-310-story-decomposer/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-310-story-decomposer
description: Orchestrates task operations. Analyzes Story, builds optimal plan (1-6 tasks), delegates to ln-311-task-creator (CREATE/ADD) or ln-312-task-replanner (REPLAN). Auto-discovers team ID.
---

# Linear Task Planner (Orchestrator)

Coordinates creation or replanning of implementation tasks for a Story. Builds the ideal plan first, then routes to workers.

## Purpose & Scope
- Auto-discover Team ID, load Story context (AC, Technical Notes, Context)
- Build optimal implementation task plan (1-6 tasks) in Foundation-First order
- Detect mode and delegate: CREATE/ADD -> ln-311-task-creator, REPLAN -> ln-312-task-replanner
- Strip any Non-Functional Requirements; only functional scope becomes tasks
- Never creates/updates Linear or kanban directly (workers do)

## When to Use
- Need tasks for a Story with clear AC/Technical Notes
- Story requirements changed and existing tasks must be updated
- Not for tests (ln-350-story-test-planner handles test tasks)

## Workflow (concise)
- **Phase 1 Discovery:** Auto-discover Team ID (docs/tasks/kanban_board.md); parse Story ID from request.
- **Phase 2 Decompose (always):** Load Story (AC, Technical Notes, Context), assess complexity, build IDEAL plan (1-6 tasks), apply Foundation-First execution order, extract guide links.
- **Phase 3 Check & Detect Mode:** Query Linear for existing tasks (metadata only). Detect mode by count + user keywords (add/replan).
- **Phase 4 Delegate:** Call the right worker with Story data, IDEAL plan/append request, guide links, existing task IDs if any; autoApprove=true.
- **Phase 5 Verify:** Ensure worker returns URLs/summary and updated kanban_board.md; report result.

## Mode Matrix
| Condition | Mode | Delegate | Payload |
|-----------|------|----------|---------|
| Count = 0 | CREATE | ln-311-task-creator | taskType=implementation, Story data, IDEAL plan, guideLinks |
| Count > 0 AND "add"/"append" | ADD | ln-311-task-creator | taskType=implementation, appendMode=true, newTaskDescription, guideLinks |
| Count > 0 AND replan keywords | REPLAN | ln-312-task-replanner | taskType=implementation, Story data, IDEAL plan, guideLinks, existingTaskIds |
| Count > 0 AND ambiguous | ASK | Clarify with user | — |

## Critical Rules
- Decompose-first: always build IDEAL plan before looking at existing tasks.
- Foundation-First execution order: DB -> Repository -> Service -> API -> Frontend.
- Task limits: 1-6 tasks, 3-5h each; cap total at 6 tasks.
- No test creation anywhere in implementation tasks.
- No code snippets in descriptions; workers own task documents and Linear/kanban updates.
- Language preservation: keep Story language (EN/RU) in any generated content by workers.

## Definition of Done (orchestrator)
- Team ID discovered; Story ID parsed.
- Story loaded; IDEAL plan built (1-6 tasks) with Foundation-First order and guide links.
- Existing tasks counted; mode selected (CREATE/ADD/REPLAN or ask).
- Worker invoked with correct payload and autoApprove=true.
- Worker summary received (Linear URLs/operations) and kanban update confirmed.
- Next steps returned (ln-320-story-validator then ln-330-story-executor).

## Reference Files
- Templates owned by ln-311-task-creator: `../ln-311-task-creator/references/task_template_implementation.md`
- Replan algorithm details: `../ln-312-task-replanner/references/replan_algorithm.md`
- Auto-discovery notes: `CLAUDE.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md`

---
Version: 8.0.0 (Condensed orchestrator flow and mode matrix)
Last Updated: 2025-11-26

Commit message:

Condense SKILL.md docs for orchestrator and executors
Rewrote SKILL.md files for ln-330-story-executor, ln-331-task-executor, and ln-332-task-reviewer to concise, workflow-focused formats. Retained all critical orchestration, single-task safety, and review rules, but removed verbose step-by-step and example sections. Updated version and last updated dates for each file.

ln-310-story-decomposer/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-310-story-decomposer
description: Orchestrates task operations. Analyzes Story, builds optimal plan (1-6 tasks), delegates to ln-311-task-creator (CREATE/ADD) or ln-312-task-replanner (REPLAN). Auto-discovers team ID.
---

# Linear Task Planner (Orchestrator)

Coordinates creation or replanning of implementation tasks for a Story. Builds the ideal plan first, then routes to workers.

## Purpose & Scope
- Auto-discover Team ID, load Story context (AC, Technical Notes, Context)
- Build optimal implementation task plan (1-6 tasks) in Foundation-First order
- Detect mode and delegate: CREATE/ADD -> ln-311-task-creator, REPLAN -> ln-312-task-replanner
- Strip any Non-Functional Requirements; only functional scope becomes tasks
- Never creates/updates Linear or kanban directly (workers do)

## When to Use
- Need tasks for a Story with clear AC/Technical Notes
- Story requirements changed and existing tasks must be updated
- Not for tests (ln-350-story-test-planner handles test tasks)

## Workflow (concise)
- **Phase 1 Discovery:** Auto-discover Team ID (docs/tasks/kanban_board.md); parse Story ID from request.
- **Phase 2 Decompose (always):** Load Story (AC, Technical Notes, Context), assess complexity, build IDEAL plan (1-6 tasks), apply Foundation-First execution order, extract guide links.
- **Phase 3 Check & Detect Mode:** Query Linear for existing tasks (metadata only). Detect mode by count + user keywords (add/replan).
- **Phase 4 Delegate:** Call the right worker with Story data, IDEAL plan/append request, guide links, existing task IDs if any; autoApprove=true.
- **Phase 5 Verify:** Ensure worker returns URLs/summary and updated kanban_board.md; report result.

## Mode Matrix
| Condition | Mode | Delegate | Payload |
|-----------|------|----------|---------|
| Count = 0 | CREATE | ln-311-task-creator | taskType=implementation, Story data, IDEAL plan, guideLinks |
| Count > 0 AND "add"/"append" | ADD | ln-311-task-creator | taskType=implementation, appendMode=true, newTaskDescription, guideLinks |
| Count > 0 AND replan keywords | REPLAN | ln-312-task-replanner | taskType=implementation, Story data, IDEAL plan, guideLinks, existingTaskIds |
| Count > 0 AND ambiguous | ASK | Clarify with user | — |

## Critical Rules
- Decompose-first: always build IDEAL plan before looking at existing tasks.
- Foundation-First execution order: DB -> Repository -> Service -> API -> Frontend.
- Task limits: 1-6 tasks, 3-5h each; cap total at 6 tasks.
- Linear creation must be sequential: create one task, confirm success, then create the next (no bulk) to catch errors early.
- No test creation anywhere in implementation tasks.
- No code snippets in descriptions; workers own task documents and Linear/kanban updates.
- Language preservation: keep Story language (EN/RU) in any generated content by workers.

## Definition of Done (orchestrator)
- Team ID discovered; Story ID parsed.
- Story loaded; IDEAL plan built (1-6 tasks) with Foundation-First order and guide links.
- Existing tasks counted; mode selected (CREATE/ADD/REPLAN or ask).
- Worker invoked with correct payload and autoApprove=true.
- Worker summary received (Linear URLs/operations) and kanban update confirmed.
- Next steps returned (ln-320-story-validator then ln-330-story-executor).

## Reference Files
- Templates owned by ln-311-task-creator: `../ln-311-task-creator/references/task_template_implementation.md`
- Replan algorithm details: `../ln-312-task-replanner/references/replan_algorithm.md`
- Auto-discovery notes: `CLAUDE.md`, `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md`

---
Version: 8.0.0 (Condensed orchestrator flow and mode matrix)
Last Updated: 2025-11-26
