ln-333-task-rework/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-333-task-rework
description: Addresses review feedback, fixes To Rework tasks. Applies fixes via KISS/YAGNI/DRY, runs type checks/linting, submits to To Review. Auto-discovers config.
---

# Task Rework Skill

Fix issues in tasks (To Rework → In Progress → To Review) based on review feedback.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when fixing issues in task (status = To Rework) after review feedback.

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all To Rework tasks

## How It Works

> [!NOTE]
> **Checkpoint Sync (when invoked by ln-300-story-pipeline hierarchy):**
> - **Start:** Record `| timestamp | ln-333 | Acquired | from ln-330 |` in Ownership Log
> - **During work:** Mark `- [x]` checkboxes as steps complete (Feedback loaded, Must-fix items addressed, etc.)
> - **Before returning:**
>   - Mark `- [x]` final checkboxes with results (Quality gates passed, Status → To Review)
>   - Record `| timestamp | ln-333 | Released | to ln-330 |` in Ownership Log

### Phase 1: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers Team ID and project configuration from `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` and `CLAUDE.md`.

**Details:** See CLAUDE.md "Configuration Auto-Discovery".

### Phase 2: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Select task:**
   - If task ID provided → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List "To Rework" tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Read review feedback:** Load all comments with Must-fix items
3. **Identify scope:** Code, tests, documentation, architecture, and Existing Code Impact items
4. **Track progress:** Create TodoWrite todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (To Rework → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### To Rework"
     * Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Preserve Epic header and Story structure
   - Address each Must-fix item from review feedback
   - Complete Existing Code Impact tasks (refactoring, existing tests, documentation)
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting, [for test tasks] re-run tests + check coverage ≥80%
   - Add rework summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Remove task line from In Progress
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
5. **Execute first todo:** Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" in Linear
6. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement for ONLY the selected task (Epic → Story → Task preserved)

### Phase 3: Implementation

**Documentation-First process:**
1. **Update documentation FIRST:**
   - If feedback mentions doc issues → fix docs first
   - If code changes affect architecture → update ARCHITECTURE.md first
   - Use updated docs as specification for code fixes
2. **Address each Must-fix item** from review feedback
3. **Follow principles:** KISS / YAGNI / DRY
4. **Apply fixes:** Code changes, test updates
5. **Complete Existing Code Impact:**
   - Finish all refactoring from task's "Existing Code Impact" section
   - Update all existing tests (maintain passing status)
   - Update all affected documentation
6. **Request clarification:** If new or unclear issues appear, document and ask before proceeding

**Quality validation:**
- Run quality gates (types, lint)
- **For test tasks only:** Run all tests, verify Priority ≥15 scenarios covered, check test limits (10-28 total)
- Re-run specific tests mentioned in review (if applicable)
- Fix all newly surfaced issues immediately

### Phase 4: Submit for Re-Review

**Steps:**
1. **Add rework summary comment:**
   - List all fixes applied
   - Reference each Must-fix item addressed
   - **For test tasks only:** Note Priority ≥15 scenarios tested and test limits (10-28 total)
   - Note quality gates status
2. **Update status:** In Progress → To Review
3. **Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement:**
   - Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
   - Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
   - Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
   - Preserve Epic header and Story structure

**Important:**
- Do NOT commit changes (commits happen after final approval)
- Do NOT close task
- Focus solely on fixes and updates

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after re-review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Review Feedback Addressed:**
- [ ] All Must-fix items from reviewer feedback completed
- [ ] Should-fix items completed (if time permits)
- [ ] Root causes fixed (not just symptoms)
- [ ] No additional issues introduced

**✅ Fixes Applied:**
- [ ] Code changes follow KISS/YAGNI principles (no over-engineering)
- [ ] DRY violations removed (refactored to shared method/function/service/base class)
- [ ] Guide patterns applied correctly (if feedback mentioned guide compliance)
- [ ] No code duplication introduced

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code style compliant
- [ ] **For test tasks:** All tests pass, test limits verified (10-28), Priority ≥15 scenarios tested
- [ ] All quality gates that failed in review now pass

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Fixes comment added to Linear:
  - "Rework complete. Addressed feedback:"
  - List of fixed items (what was fixed, how)
  - Reference to review feedback items
- [ ] Task status changed: "To Rework" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated with hierarchical task movement:
  - Task found in parent Story section under "### To Rework"
  - Task line removed: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)`
  - Task line added to same Story section under "### To Review"
  - Epic header and Story structure preserved

**✅ NO Premature Actions:**
- [ ] NO git commit made (commits happen after ln-332-task-reviewer approval)
- [ ] Task NOT closed (remains To Review for re-review)
- [ ] Only fixes applied (no scope creep, no new features)

**Output:** Task ready for re-review by ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Direct invocation:**
```
Rework task API-42 based on review feedback
```

## Best Practices

1. **Documentation FIRST** - Fix doc issues BEFORE code fixes (docs as specification)
2. **Address all Must-fix items** - Check each item in review feedback
3. **Request clarification early** - If unclear, ask before coding
4. **Run quality gates continuously** - Don't wait until end
5. **Document all changes** - Clear summary for re-review
6. **Research before fixing** - On unclear rework items, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to understand best practice before applying fixes

---

**Version:** 5.1.0 (Hierarchical kanban_board.md updates)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-08

Commit message:

Remove checkpoint sync notes and enforce status validation
Eliminates detailed checkpoint sync instructions from all SKILL.md files and simplifies checkpoint tracking in the pipeline. Adds strict status transition validation to ln-330-story-executor and related executors, ensuring only ln-332-task-reviewer can set tasks to Done. Updates checkpoint_format.md to a minimal progress checklist. Deletes the verification_log_template.md reference file.

ln-333-task-rework/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-333-task-rework
description: Addresses review feedback, fixes To Rework tasks. Applies fixes via KISS/YAGNI/DRY, runs type checks/linting, submits to To Review. Auto-discovers config.
---

# Task Rework Skill

Fix issues in tasks (To Rework → In Progress → To Review) based on review feedback.

## When to Use This Skill

This skill should be used when fixing issues in task (status = To Rework) after review feedback.

⚠️ **CRITICAL RULE - Single Task Updates:**
- ✅ Update status for ONLY the selected task (the one passed as parameter)
- ❌ NEVER update status for multiple tasks at once
- ❌ NEVER update status for all To Rework tasks

## How It Works

### Phase 1: Discovery (Automated)

Auto-discovers Team ID and project configuration from `docs/tasks/kanban_board.md` and `CLAUDE.md`.

**Details:** See CLAUDE.md "Configuration Auto-Discovery".

### Phase 2: Preparation

**Steps:**
1. **Select task:**
   - If task ID provided → Fetch specific task
   - If no ID → List "To Rework" tasks and ask user to choose
2. **Read review feedback:** Load all comments with Must-fix items
3. **Identify scope:** Code, tests, documentation, architecture, and Existing Code Impact items
4. **Track progress:** Create TodoWrite todos with full workflow:
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (To Rework → In Progress) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### To Rework"
     * Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Preserve Epic header and Story structure
   - Address each Must-fix item from review feedback
   - Complete Existing Code Impact tasks (refactoring, existing tests, documentation)
   - Quality gates: type checking, linting, [for test tasks] re-run tests + check coverage ≥80%
   - Add rework summary comment
   - Update ONLY the selected task's status to "To Review" (Linear via update_issue with task ID)
   - Update kanban_board.md (In Progress → To Review) for ONLY the selected task:
     * Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
     * Remove task line from In Progress
     * Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
5. **Execute first todo:** Update ONLY the selected task's status to "In Progress" in Linear
6. **Execute second todo:** Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement for ONLY the selected task (Epic → Story → Task preserved)

### Phase 3: Implementation

**Documentation-First process:**
1. **Update documentation FIRST:**
   - If feedback mentions doc issues → fix docs first
   - If code changes affect architecture → update ARCHITECTURE.md first
   - Use updated docs as specification for code fixes
2. **Address each Must-fix item** from review feedback
3. **Follow principles:** KISS / YAGNI / DRY
4. **Apply fixes:** Code changes, test updates
5. **Complete Existing Code Impact:**
   - Finish all refactoring from task's "Existing Code Impact" section
   - Update all existing tests (maintain passing status)
   - Update all affected documentation
6. **Request clarification:** If new or unclear issues appear, document and ask before proceeding

**Quality validation:**
- Run quality gates (types, lint)
- **For test tasks only:** Run all tests, verify Priority ≥15 scenarios covered, check test limits (10-28 total)
- Re-run specific tests mentioned in review (if applicable)
- Fix all newly surfaced issues immediately

### Phase 4: Submit for Re-Review

**Steps:**
1. **Add rework summary comment:**
   - List all fixes applied
   - Reference each Must-fix item addressed
   - **For test tasks only:** Note Priority ≥15 scenarios tested and test limits (10-28 total)
   - Note quality gates status
2. **Update status:** In Progress → To Review
3. **Update kanban_board.md with hierarchical task movement:**
   - Find Task in parent Story section under "### In Progress"
   - Remove task line: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)` (4-space indent)
   - Add task line to same Story section under "### To Review"
   - Preserve Epic header and Story structure

**Important:**
- Do NOT commit changes (commits happen after final approval)
- Do NOT close task
- Focus solely on fixes and updates

> [!CAUTION]
> **⛔ STOP HERE. DO NOT proceed to Done status.**
> - Task status MUST remain "To Review" (NOT Done)
> - Only **ln-332-task-reviewer** can set status to Done after re-review
> - Return control to orchestrator (ln-330-story-executor) or user

---

## Definition of Done

Before completing work, verify ALL checkpoints:

**✅ Review Feedback Addressed:**
- [ ] All Must-fix items from reviewer feedback completed
- [ ] Should-fix items completed (if time permits)
- [ ] Root causes fixed (not just symptoms)
- [ ] No additional issues introduced

**✅ Fixes Applied:**
- [ ] Code changes follow KISS/YAGNI principles (no over-engineering)
- [ ] DRY violations removed (refactored to shared method/function/service/base class)
- [ ] Guide patterns applied correctly (if feedback mentioned guide compliance)
- [ ] No code duplication introduced

**✅ Quality Gates Passed:**
- [ ] Type checking: No type errors
- [ ] Linting: Code style compliant
- [ ] **For test tasks:** All tests pass, test limits verified (10-28), Priority ≥15 scenarios tested
- [ ] All quality gates that failed in review now pass

**✅ CRITICAL: Single Task Update Verified:**
- [ ] Verified via Linear: ONLY the selected task (input task ID) status was updated
- [ ] Verified via Linear: NO other tasks in the Story were updated
- [ ] Verified via kanban_board.md: ONLY one task line moved between sections

**✅ Linear Updated:**
- [ ] Fixes comment added to Linear:
  - "Rework complete. Addressed feedback:"
  - List of fixed items (what was fixed, how)
  - Reference to review feedback items
- [ ] Task status changed: "To Rework" → "To Review"
- [ ] kanban_board.md updated with hierarchical task movement:
  - Task found in parent Story section under "### To Rework"
  - Task line removed: `    - [LINEAR_ID: EP#_## Task Title](link)`
  - Task line added to same Story section under "### To Review"
  - Epic header and Story structure preserved

**✅ NO Premature Actions:**
- [ ] NO git commit made (commits happen after ln-332-task-reviewer approval)
- [ ] Task NOT closed (remains To Review for re-review)
- [ ] Only fixes applied (no scope creep, no new features)

**⛔ FORBIDDEN (workflow violation):**
- [ ] ⛔ **CRITICAL:** Task status is "To Review" (NEVER "Done" - only ln-332-task-reviewer can approve to Done)
- [ ] ⛔ **ln-330-story-executor validates status** - If task is Done, orchestrator reports worker violation error
- [ ] Did NOT attempt to re-review own fixes (not rework worker's responsibility)
- [ ] Returned control to orchestrator/user after To Review

**Output:** Task ready for re-review by ln-332-task-reviewer (status "To Review")

---

## Example Usage

**Direct invocation:**
```
Rework task API-42 based on review feedback
```

## Best Practices

1. **Documentation FIRST** - Fix doc issues BEFORE code fixes (docs as specification)
2. **Address all Must-fix items** - Check each item in review feedback
3. **Request clarification early** - If unclear, ask before coding
4. **Run quality gates continuously** - Don't wait until end
5. **Document all changes** - Clear summary for re-review
6. **Research before fixing** - On unclear rework items, use mcp__Ref__ref_search_documentation to understand best practice before applying fixes

---

**Version:** 5.1.0 (Hierarchical kanban_board.md updates)
**Last Updated:** 2025-11-08
