ln-501-code-quality-checker/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ln-501-code-quality-checker
description: Worker that checks DRY/KISS/YAGNI/architecture/guide compliance for Done implementation tasks. Reports issues; does not change statuses or create tasks.
---

# Code Quality Checker

Analyzes Done implementation tasks for code-quality issues and reports findings for the Story quality gate.

## Purpose & Scope
- Load Story and Done implementation tasks (exclude test tasks).
- Check for DRY/KISS/YAGNI violations, architecture boundary breaks, guide non-compliance, and obvious config/hardcode problems.
- Produce a verdict and structured issue list; never edits Linear or kanban.

## Workflow (concise)
1) Load Story (full) and Done implementation tasks (full descriptions) via Linear; skip tasks with label "tests".
2) Collect affected files from tasks (Affected Components/Existing Code Impact) and recent commits/diffs if noted.
3) Analyze code and docs:
   - Reuse existing components; avoid duplication; simplify over-engineering; keep layers clean.
   - No hardcoded creds/URLs/magic numbers; follow referenced guides.
   - Logging: structured logging on errors/warnings; log levels appropriate.
   - Comments: WHY-focused; no commented-out/dead code; public API documented.
   - Naming: conventions consistent; self-documenting names; no cryptic abbreviations.
   - Performance: no O(n^2) in loops; no N+1 queries; lazy loading where applicable.
   - Concurrency: no race conditions; proper locking; async/await correct.
4) Output verdict: PASS or ISSUES_FOUND with details (category, severity, file, recommendation). Add Linear comment with findings.

## Critical Rules
- Read guides mentioned in Story/Tasks before judging compliance.
- Language preservation in comments (EN/RU).
- Do not create tasks or change statuses; caller decides next actions.

## Definition of Done
- Story and Done implementation tasks loaded (test tasks excluded).
- Guides reviewed; affected files inspected.
- Verdict produced with structured issues (if any) and Linear comment posted.

## Reference Files
- Guides: `docs/guides/`
- Templates for context: `../ln-301-task-creator/references/task_template_implementation.md`

---
**Version:** 3.0.0 (Condensed worker flow)
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-23

Commit message:

Rename and refactor 4XX execution skills and templates
Renamed 4XX execution skills (ln-410-story-executor, ln-411-task-executor, ln-412-task-reviewer, ln-413-task-rework, ln-414-test-executor) to new 4XX numbering (ln-400-story-executor, ln-401-task-executor, ln-402-task-reviewer, ln-403-task-rework, ln-404-test-executor) across all documentation, references, and orchestrator logic. Updated all references, diagrams, and templates to match new structure. Centralized and clarified template loading logic for story, task, refactoring, and test templates, moving shared templates to a common directory and updating worker skills to use local project copies. Removed obsolete ln-400-story-pipeline and related files. Updated skill counts and workflow documentation to reflect the new structure.

ln-501-code-quality-checker/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ln-501-code-quality-checker
description: Worker that checks DRY/KISS/YAGNI/architecture/guide compliance for Done implementation tasks. Reports issues; does not change statuses or create tasks.
---

# Code Quality Checker

Analyzes Done implementation tasks for code-quality issues and reports findings for the Story quality gate.

## Purpose & Scope
- Load Story and Done implementation tasks (exclude test tasks).
- Check for DRY/KISS/YAGNI violations, architecture boundary breaks, guide non-compliance, and obvious config/hardcode problems.
- Produce a verdict and structured issue list; never edits Linear or kanban.

## Workflow (concise)
1) Load Story (full) and Done implementation tasks (full descriptions) via Linear; skip tasks with label "tests".
2) Collect affected files from tasks (Affected Components/Existing Code Impact) and recent commits/diffs if noted.
3) Analyze code and docs:
   - Reuse existing components; avoid duplication; simplify over-engineering; keep layers clean.
   - No hardcoded creds/URLs/magic numbers; follow referenced guides.
   - Logging: structured logging on errors/warnings; log levels appropriate.
   - Comments: WHY-focused; no commented-out/dead code; public API documented.
   - Naming: conventions consistent; self-documenting names; no cryptic abbreviations.
   - Performance: no O(n^2) in loops; no N+1 queries; lazy loading where applicable.
   - Concurrency: no race conditions; proper locking; async/await correct.
4) Output verdict: PASS or ISSUES_FOUND with details (category, severity, file, recommendation). Add Linear comment with findings.

## Critical Rules
- Read guides mentioned in Story/Tasks before judging compliance.
- Language preservation in comments (EN/RU).
- Do not create tasks or change statuses; caller decides next actions.

## Definition of Done
- Story and Done implementation tasks loaded (test tasks excluded).
- Guides reviewed; affected files inspected.
- Verdict produced with structured issues (if any) and Linear comment posted.

## Reference Files
- Guides: `docs/guides/`
- Templates for context: `shared/templates/task_template_implementation.md` (or local `docs/templates/` in target project)

---
**Version:** 3.0.0 (Condensed worker flow)
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-23
